Bertrand Russell - 'The Conquest of Happiness' artificial stimulation (in our case, games) provide the body with excitement but it is false as we are sedentary. 
“Best part of this dog? He doesn’t die?” Animals seen in terms of utility
we "must move outside the limitations of the intellect."
He thinks the past is more playgful - not any more, I would say! We live in a saturated magic-circle age
Finlay made “painted wooden ‘toys’” ‘rocking boats, strings of drying fish, windmills’ (little sparta) - drawn from his imagination, totemism. Became sculpture - “began to produce toys on a larger sail”
Game design as a form of concrete poetry - (Little Sparta) - “this poetry lays out on the page an images which elicits from the reader an imaginative response to the visual appearance of the words, the ideas they present and the juxtapositions of sound, shape or reference designed by the poet… combining their appearance and meanings in works to be meditated upon as, say, a sculpture may be.”


Jocelyn Spence - performative experience design - “because audience matters”
Performative Experience Design - related to Brenda Laurel’s work, but more focussed on user in performance of HCI. The “performer-spectator dyad”. “Tools for conceptualising the representation of action.” “Performance roles in different interactional dynamics between human and computer agents.”


Orchids to Dusk - time-based, vignette, fleeting, create environment from deaths. Your choice is only where to die. Flowers growing and dying. Contemplative, minimal character. Kill Screen - there is “value in inertia.”
You have to wait to profress - concave characterisation - doing nothing “becomes an experiential acceptance.”
Taking off helmet - “this gesture meant a lot to me.”
Persistent world -e ach flower is a person. 
Character and landscape combine. 
Cipher characters, again and again. 

“To a certain extent, they are something you become”. (Games) Unlike television.

I think about guitar chords spacially, for example (Logical empathy).
“In a way it is beyond thinking” - like playing a musical instrument. 


“Children identify more directly with the games’ characters” - not just working on a “skill”, therefore we need to focus on children’s interactions with computers to think about character worthily, not just think about adult techniques - same with books, can use similar techniques for adults and children. 
But a lot of ‘child philosopher’ games now?

Homo Ludens - “magic circle” was only a side point that he made, “all knowledge is sacred knowledge” (central principle) play is not real life, it requires and creates order, there is no material gain or profit - divination as play, magic circle is porous, applies to digital world. Not wholly involved in digital - your ordianry life creeps in, as well - “ubicomp”. (edward castronova.
Magic circle as “becoming elsewhere”.

Could use the Salen & Zimmerman (formal/experiential/cultural) model for analysing my work; but I’m not going to. 


Partially “telepresence”, but also independent from the ‘player as an actor’ in the gamespace. 

"one is knower and dupe at once. But one chooses to be the dupe."

Obviously I agree with some of Weiz (and a bit of Turkle, as well) - can't think of minds as purely like computers, can't reduce everything to technical (if only because our technical is limited) - but can't disavow it, either. It does have some things to say about the world, if only in how we interpret complex systems as human animals.  The role of artists must be a piecemeal one; it mst be one of explaining through doing, of not laying things out neatly; it is a process that we can only hope will never end. re. my drawings for my creature; they are useful, but I can't always stuck to them; other things will come up. I am trying to understand the system, through authorship, but even the author must be their own audience.


TaleSpin used animals as ‘humor’ and a way to demonstrate ideas simply 


Computers can be used to generate, or analyse, narrative -but I am taking an authorial approach to looking at narrative.Nothing wrong with systematisation, but it doesn’t work very well, I don’t think.

Some things need to be made automatic - micro-managing creature becomes tedious after a while. Only a very limited set of variables that the creature responds to (and all laid out at the start of the game!) Because the idea is to ‘win’, rather than ‘experiment’, you must provide a ‘fair’ amount of hand-holding to the player with the creature.

"the advent of the computer has taken our relationships with technology to a new level. Computers, with their reactivity and interactivity, stand in a novel and evocative relationship between the living and the inanimate. - Turkle

“What could it mean to speak of risk, courage, trust, endurance and overcoming when one speaks of machines.” - machines is such a simplistic way to look at it now!

'relational artifacts could be... self-objects that never disappoint'.

The relationship between the books may have been that we were each looking at the coming wave of technology as something fundamentally about humans, our social and developmental and cultural contexts.


Turkle talks about the giddiness of ppl discovering programming at thinking of the entire world as a system. I certainly had this. re. the pheasant.
"discrepancy between theory and the experience of the self"



James Meehan’s Tale-Spin - granular detail “generating stories via carefully-crafted processes that operate at a fine level on story data.” (Wardrip-Fruin)


Computational narratology - narratology is “a humanities discipline dedicated to the study of the logic, principles and practices of narrative representation.” Overlap with AI, game environments that interact with narrative. Can game environments only interact with narrative.?

“Humans are actually not very good sensors” - an AI character must either be artificially limited in its sensor array or instead be a god

This idea of the 'second self' - of computers as reflections of our own concerns and selves. Therefore characters are perfect for this; tools for self-realisation. Do not need to program for this, I don't think.

Her whole book is reflective of the 'media equation' and of computers not as dumb tools, but as reflective mirrors.
Environments-as-stories are not presented to us - we must go and find them.
