(Ryan) - god game has a combination of replayability and narrative diversity - minecraft as a god game. exploring a landscape is like a "little god game". uses sims as an example of this. "characters are like objects" - nodes within the world - written onto them. But always at a remove. YOu are their god.

McWilliams, on NPCS - "life doesn't really work that way"

 human cognition is already deeply attuned to the logic of systems, and that the
systems paradigm is already deeply rooted in human experience.
Koenig's imaginative systems - parsing systems and then having a strategy.


“you can go through the experience without the complete emotional damage.” - definition of empathy tourism.
“You do not play as yourself - you play as the subconscious of Julian Luxembourg”
“You can look out… but you cannot change him.”
Methods of characterisation given a very fixed space. 
Vsiceral sound of bread in hand, hand up to mouth, crunching in mouth. 
The voiceover is suggestive, a guide. 
Wine is called “Otra Vida” - Another life”.
Your fingers flit around the keyboard like thoughts. 
The wine aas the mediator, the inciting trope to move the story on. 
Menu is him washing up, afterwards or before. 

Choosing to build othe rsystems - (Hunicke) "systems that interest the developers personally"


koster "chas[ing] fidelity" - "large gap between visual fidelity and emotional fidelity"

need to link more to narrative, causality, sensemaking of beings in space.

oUR UMWELT - THE WORLD IN WHICH WE act - THEREFORE GAMES RELATED TO UMWELT.

- "every poem or every song is certainly a system" (Zimmerman)
The role of 'coherence' in digital characters.
- Moran's 
'Vividness' is not clarity - it is what they "provoke the mind to //do//"

Calleja -  “where
belief (if the term still applies at all) is created through action, movement, navigation,
communication and other forms of interaction” - therefore we need to look at distance and lack of distance in real life as well.



mment here that you can share during your session if appropriate. 
Kiri Miller - "distanced immersion" and irony in much game design.
Ironic quality of GTA is a metaleptical device.

Ryan, leading on from debates in classical narratology - narrative as " “a sequence of events involving thinking individuals, linked by
causal relations, motivated by a conflict, and aiming at its resolution”"

Sim and Mitchell 2017 - gameplay used to tell stories without the help of words - enacting narrative through gameplay, through controls, 
"ludonarrative resonance"
Say that ambiguity in games is not a bad thing. Mystery is not a bad thing.

Using the body in the work to speak to a more general, autocosmic idea of the imagination, based in our real, everyday bodies.


look at knole approaches - what can be referenced in here?

Rob, I've read your pages - very interesting, clear, well-argued. There are a few typos but I haven't marked up the text this time. My only real question is really about tone or implication on p. 7-8. Your argument about what is wrong with computational characters, in particular game characters, is clear and logical, but I think it comes too close to feeling as though you are blaming the player for their degraded view of character, for looking for the clockwork workings. It was this section in particular - though it on its own doesn't really demonstrate it. I think the overall tone of dismay or disapproval in the pages overall 7-9 needs to be altered a bit, and this will fix this perception: 

However, this task becomes infinitely harder when an audience expects to be the central and defining factor of that representation themselves, and to have the freedom to control that representation[1], while also expecting so little of the characterisation in the first place; when the "incentives" (Seraphine, 2014) of a game – that the player is about to experience an interactive narrative with characters as "an end in [themselves]" (Ryan, 2001) - does not match the "directives" (Seraphine, 2014) of the computation itseld, and the player instead experiences a simplistic activity where character is peripheral, only  "a means towards the goal of luring the player into the game-world" (Ryan, 2001). The autocosmic partnership that resonance requires is mortally wounded before it has begun.

Beyond that, I think this second part will works well.  