 Looking in every corner, completionist. (in Rapture, T)
 “Sometimes I walk in SKyrim rather than running everywhere.” 
“Doesn’t seem to be anything too special in here”


Sometimes distracting from the gameplay as you want to explore but there was no result/benefit in doing so.
“Wanna keep walking, but don’t want to miss what they’re saying” - locative, node-based characters. Tension between character and exploration. 

AAUTOCOSMICS - Sound in game helped to cover up the simplistic environments - deliberately over-naive - imported complexity

The use of the word map in games - B used it. As opposed to world.


Champion - "why should a world, especially a past world revisited to explain past cultural significance, revolve around a current-world player?" Quoting "Matthew Tyler-Jones" - "the virtual world's entire causal mechanics rotate around the player" - 

Debra Polson - Museum of colliding dimensions (2016)
VR, installation, mock museum display - controlled by audience's position.

Physical -> AR -> VR - "increasing immersion".
MR- "
 innovative adoption of emerging technologies"


What I am making is a "virtual ecology" - Karl Sims, John McCormack "art-breeders", Louise Bec
"physically instantiated a-life systems" Grey Walter, Edward Ihantowicz Senstrer, Ken Rinaldo 'Flock', PEtit Mal
AR (Bolter) - digital information integrated into [the] immediate physical environment. "augmented virtuality" is really what I'm doing, but he says that it is a little-used term. AR "acknowledges the physical world rather than eliding it" like VR does.

Katherine Cross - Champions the idea of games taking on human/environmental subjects as banal as the 'Floor Scrapers' - 
magic realism is "games' native expression"

Mention simulation more?

Critical theorists (in Golumbia 2014) draw explicit parallels between technological and economic interests.
Robins & Webster - military and technology
Golumbia's whole article is about this.
Dyer-Whitford and dePeuter about the fostering of aggressive, eltist and staid cultures of 'use' amongst gamers.
We can use machines resistively (Flanagan).
It is what Dick Higgins calls "intermedia"

Gertrude Stein - "a thing made by being made" - avant-garde texts

"a primitive story (affecting basic human emotions, based on animal instincts)"

Ppl have chunked this simplicity - they are not expecting to have a socially-good experience and it becomes not a social simulator but a way of negotiating state machines.
"computational technologies were undergirded by a worldview which was
fundamentally in tension with the worldview of artmaking"  - Penny
Perhaps there will be a paradigm shift in the technology.
 have very little support in the culture other than notionally (Hunicke). 
It could be argued that the narratology/ludology debate which has dominated much of videogames discourse has arisen from the compromises which the ludic offers to the character-led, narrative experience which is struggling with the restrictions of the form, and the popularity, historically, of adopting those compromises.

 Indeed, so poised are these questions, challenges and deficiences that the culture has sprung up reactionary paradigms and bizarre defensive meta-narratives which apologise for and lampoon this deficiency. Developers and artists see talk of aesthetic sophistication as "pretension and self-aggrandizement", of games as "recreation" rather than a act of creative expression (Lantz). Large videogames studios relish player's ridicule of their poor characterisation, cherishing the player's agency above the coherence of their expressions.  When more sophisticated emotions are considered, they are instrumentalised and simplified; emotional engagement outside the traditionally ludic immersions summarised as the indistinct and blunt "feels" (Smith), the "fine line between drama and melodrama" crossed in the overwhelming and misguided desire to make the player cry; what Calixto sees as "an awkward system of emotional currency" which fundamentally misunderstands the range of experiences open to narratives that are more focussed upon interpersonal and characterful issues. Mullaney and Anthropy and Clark chart the culture's self-neoteny in its refusal to engage with difficult conversations, and avoiding artistic debate, and instead maintaining the safe market waters of activities discontiguous from the concerns of real life  and the "ambiguous complexities of all the meansings they generate" (Anthropy and Clark, Mullaney, Smuts). It remains a culture where a senior developer, a lynchpin of mainstream computational art culture, may seriously call at a recent conference for "believable characters, as opposed to a believable gun" (AI Summit, 2013).

Burns, 2012 - we haven't developed anything as complex as our combat