"holiday catalogsadvertise interactive robotic creatures with personalities and moods" -> now toys use apps, relating to the data on the internet, the wider social human context-  but can advancements be made just between a computer and a human, without recourse to 'multiplayer' elements.

'relational artifacts' - concrete things presents as 'ready for relationships'. Before, autocosmics was king - just project onto lifeless objects. Now, project onto objects with a sort 

FurReal Friends - Make sounds, move, attached to apps (StarLily). It “reacts to what you do in the app. What will she do if you feed her a virtual sugarberry?… Will you discover what makes her spread her wings?”
Gesture recognition
Moving mouth!
Emotional
“No doubt about it, this cute feline is full of personality!”
“Pet her on her forehead to discover he latest mood!”
“Pet her super-soft fur” (Bootsie)
“She loves to be cuddled” (Bootsie)
Wag tails
“Ordinary will become the extraordinary through magical changes in the app.”
Pax My pooping pup. In video, compared favourably to a ‘real do’

Kids can get carried away into a world of fantasy pet fun with Torch, My Blazin' Dragon. Imagine that that he lives deep in an enchanted forest, inside a colorful crystal cave. One thing's for sure -- this adorable baby dragon with the fiery personality is full of fun and surprises. Take care of him and discover what exciting things this fantastical pet can do! - this is speaking to adults.

FurReal Friends plush pets are all about rich, pet experiences. Their exciting, engaging, and interactive play helps to create unforgettable memories. 

Tamatalk 
Tamagotchi Memorial - A place to remember your Tamagotchi pets who have gone back to their home planet (or died... Depending on how you look at it). 
Somebody making clothes for their tamagotchi.

Pinocchi - A creation that is given life (Feptetto like pygmalion)
Dreamed of being a real boy.
He is a resonant character - lots of things happen to him because it was his fault. Walt Disney got rid of his bad traits because they made the character too unlikable.


TamaTalk memorial by TolueneZene - Rest in peace, my son.
I'm sorry I forgot about you, and I'm sorry I didn't restore your mate sooner...
I regret just ignoring your beeps....
“Anthropomorphised their blankers much more than other toys even if those other toys had a face.”


Teddy bear as a “transitional object” - re. Winnicott and transitional experiences - what I am doing is a cross between a toy and a story. 
“To the baby it has a richly ambiguous psychological location, shimmering with emotion but definitely not a hallucination.”
My purple tamagotchi friends died.
His name was firey, I really miss him.
I left him in the computer room, when I came back to put them up,One of them was asleep but firey wasn't,
I was devastated.
R.T.P Firey 2015-2016

As I worked, she left, despite being  fairly healthy.  Could it be that as Tamas age, they get sick easier?  Well, it doesn't matter now.  Coco is gone, and that is all there is to it.  See you, Coco.
(Watashiwatchi)

Tamatalk (more)

Thread all about people over the age of 16 playing with them - very rabid assertion that it is for all ages.

Dakimakura
“Security object” - hug pillows - not necessarily a sex object. Is it a real need, or has it been inflated by meme culture. They are sometimes gag gifts, of course. Sometimes used to keep cool. 
Dutch Wives - 1990s term.
“Waifu” - sex dolls on stag dos - eager to give them a name, make them companion. 
Bamboo wife/dutch wife - sleep with it, cool you down. 




To do with cultural force as well - EVERYBODY had one. Can non-consumer-product art do the same?
What do you regret about doing to them
‘Angelgotchi’ - religiosising them.
Regret breaking them, throughing them away, breaking them while trying to repair them (the pathos!)
Scratching them
‘Tama abuse’
Grown up a little since that suff happened…
Mixed with ‘I’m sad I sold it because they are worth so much now’
Customising them. Painting with nail polish
Debugging them, taking them apart.
Things have more personality through use (the human zoo)

Wereaibo - “ I feel really bad for it now. “
BlueLeafeon - Forgetting and leaving them in my pocket.
Death to the washing machine was the eventual fate of ALL my original virtual pets. Even the ones I really loved. ￼”

Keep emojis in
Emojis as animist
Do you remember your first tama? They all remember. Nostaliga 
KachipatchiLvr3000 - “Of course I do! I would never forget him!”




Daemons in Dark Materials - the form of oneself in an outward form - animals being seen as aspects of the human.
They are more malleable as children - related to children’s play and acceptance of the autocosmic.
Their autocosmic, unconscious selves. Daemons interact as the humans should or want to.





Children know that objects aren’t real, they don’t asribe emotions. Apart from attachment objects (for self-soothing).

Digital pets use affective computing abilities to enhance realism and provide a higher degree of autonomy

Adults still have attachment objects.

“It is exciting to play with the idea of life and death, and it is exciting to feel responded to by a ‘living’ machine.”

Turkle - p23-25 the stages of interaction with an evocative object, childhood to adulthood. 


P.39 - Turkle talking about the Speak ‘n Spell bug, being evocative. Cannot turn it off! Same with the creature?

anthropomorphism - children's magical beliefs.
children are not empty vessels - actually, false assumptions about how world works.
we never replace the false beliefs, sometimes - and sometimes the childhood biases kick in.


Without a goal, just a toy? Does nature writing, or vignette writing, have a goal or a real ‘goal-based’ narrative?

not just a 'maintenance' game - not interested in mechanics solely. 

Siri as a toy - people trying to find all the secret phrases

Juiciness - not just for toys. Can have cultural ramifications

"[the child's] representation is not so much a sham-reality as a realisation in appearance: "imagintation" in the original sense of the word."

Relating to ADULT PLAY

children aren't always anthropomorphists - it's the basis of their popular culture. 
we tend to anthropomorphise more as we get older -> attachment objects
Doesn't even need to have faces. 


Kids’ virtual pets are a big site of transmedia commodification

Do tamagotchis have a narrative? Is death the most boring end for a narrative?

It doesn’t die

Furby - “loud and demanding” (Time)

Time article - furby’s popularity was due to media whip-up aided by toy companies
“Kids have probably never been so far removed from the creation of a toy fad”
Adults drive demand first! Fallback to their childhood

New sincerity - “outsized celebration of joy” - sentimentality in digital pets, a response to postmodernism.

Turkle - evocative objects (the starting point for my paracosmic research)
Objects are instilled with value beyond themselves - though we cannot always control the meaning, as designers - the paracosmic, the unpredictable redader. Not intrinsic qualities, but bestowed. Computation in the owner’s head/
“Objects are able to catylise self-creation”
Irregularity is beautiful
Why do we love these objects is the same as why do we love these characters?
“Feel at one with our objects”
Objects have ‘social lives’ (Norman) 

- Does not have to be a representation of a human or animal; can also be an object.
Just like a real Kitten, Figaro will need to be "fed."
To "feed" him, simply place the bottle so that it is
touching his mouth
- Do not throw or kick the product, and do not push
sharp objects through the speaker openings.

Furby dictionary - translation.
“Press-down the tongue -> little shortcuts to avoid manufacturer-defined play.
Manual is almost written as a story - are instructions and story separate, as in game manuals.
If batteries running down “my behaviour will become erratic” - like degrading.
“It remembers things that you like”  - talk about the houskeeping.

ore and language of schoolchildren explicitly presupposes that a realm of young people exists, distnct and separate from the adult world.
“A self-regulating and original society”
But introduction points out that there is much transmission between adult and child worlds, and the division is perhaps overstated by the Opies.

Link Turkle’s comments about ‘relational artifacts’ and the Opie’s deciding that play has not disappeared.
Children “are tradition’s warmest friends”
Opies report that children often beliee in summoning devil, the power of objects etc.
“Economy of human invention” - we use existing elements in our autocosmics (Opie)




My baby all gone, you make it all gone! ‘Why don’t you feed my baby instead’? Better than a real child. Refill the bottle, simulates eating
‘That’s my girl!’
Baby Wee-wee - squirt water in face as well.
Facination with bodily fluids.


My five year old daughter was determined to buy a Baby All Gone with her birthday money this year. As it was her money, I decided to let her make her own choice.
Hmmm. Unfortunately the doll itself isn't even particularly attractive. It has a huge head, poorly painted face and hair that looks like a 50 year old dolls hair as soon as you get the thing out of the box. It has a soft 'rag doll' type body, with very plastic arms, legs and head. It wears a particularly nylon type of nylon dress, covered in a cherry pattern. And therein lies the attraction of the doll to a 5 year old girl. You can feed it cherries. The doll comes with a dish of cherries (scented with an extremely uncherry like cherry smell), a special spoon and a bottle of milk. Kids can 'feed' the cherries to the doll and she eats them all up.
So, did my daughter like the doll? Well lets put it this way. She liked it for about 2 hours. Once the novelty of the cherry feeding scenario wore off, Baby All Gone was cast aside and has not been touched since. On being asked why she wouldn't play with the doll any more, my daughter said it "smelt funny". Can't say I blamed her!
So, unless you want to pay £20 for a doll that will be played with for only a couple of hours, leave Baby All Gone on the shelf.
2 Comments  22 people found this helpful. Was this review helpful to you?  YesNo  Report abuse
5.0 out of 5 stars1990's
By Maria on 13 Nov. 2011
I had this doll has a child growing up in the 1990's. A few of my co-workers and I were talking about the dolls and toys we had growing up,and this one stuck with me. It was my favorite. I can still smell her. She smelled like cherries.
Comment  3 people found this helpful. Was this review helpful to you?  YesNo  Report abuse
5.0 out of 5 starsTraditional Favourite
By A Customer on 21 Nov. 2001
This doll reminds me of toys i had when i was little, and my children have enjoyed the action of "feeding" her, hopefully it will encourage them to eat all their dinner up. The milk bottle does the old "tip me upside down and it'll all disappear" trick to make it look as if the doll's drinking. A good value baby doll.






Puppetry - like toys, essentially.Hand puppets, marionettes, 

Ver, very ancient - can have religious roles.
Communicate something human.
Like automata - but use humans INSTEAD of machines, like autocosmics!
Shadow puppetry is very autocosmic.
Bunraku - evolved out of Shinto temple rites.Black puppeteers - we cans ee them, but we ignore them.
Water puppetry - standing on the water. In vietnam
PUppet societies
Obviously linked to ventriloquy, sarah angliss
Punch and judy, obviously and grand guignol (came from commedia del arte) - atrickster mythology
“Guignol amuses childen… and witty adults”
Anothe rform that we now think of as ‘for children’ but had roots in religion.
Puppets in italy led to the commedia dell’arte allegorical sotries.
Teotihuacan funerary rites used puppets - others who used puppets.
 The outsider nature of puppets, populist.
War horse puppets.

Maybe what I am doing is a form of digital puippetry?



A bibliography of everything, divided into sections to show how wide the reading was!

Not a historical fiction.
Are toys and digital pets the same? Narratised characters with whom we can interact?
Come up with bare bones first, then use papers to dress them.
Relating between my fiction and autocosmics in toys, objects, make-believe, superstition etc.




“Children… play with and manipulate objects to get a sense of control over them.” - they create narratives, sense-make, conquer. “Theoretical constructs”, elaborate exceptions to their mental models to let them cope with things. 
Baby All Gone is a happy looking doll, with a soft, squishy body but more solid legs, arms and head. She has shiny blonde hair, big blue eyes and a lovely pink dress bearing a print of her favourite fruits--cherries.
Baby All Gone comes with a "real" milk bottle and a jar of "cherries". First the milk bottle needs to be filled: simply hold the milk preparation can against the top of the bottle and it will magically fill in with "real" milk. When the bottle is pressed into the baby's mouth, the milk then magically disappears.
Time for pudding and luckily cherries are Baby's favourites. Just dip the spoon into the deliciously cherry-scented jar, pull out a spoon full of fruits and feed the doll: she'll eat them all in one bite! --Gaelle Affret




- Turkle: “Young children see almost everything in the world as alive in one way or another.”
Children playing with electronic toys in Second Self - as she says in MIT Talk, the fact that they couldnt move wasn’t important - “their e-motion, their psychological motion” was what was importnat. 
Heideger thinks children’s anthropomoprhisation of toys lead to doing so in adulthood.

“Tamagotchis either died or sprouted wings after a couple of weeks or so, often prompting gloom and guilt. 






In early 2011, Hasbro Chief Executive Officer Brian Goldner convened a team of designers, engineers, and marketers to figure out the Next Big Toy. They asked themselves: “What’s the most alive thing a toy can do?”
 seems to develop a personality as you play with it. 
 toymakers have launched a new product category dubbed “app toys.”
Hasbro estimates that in 2000, when it stopped making Furby, half of girls and a third of boys ages 6 to 12 in the U.S. owned one. At the peak of its popularity, the toy generated more than $500 million in annual sales, making it as big a hit as Sesame Street’s 1996 Tickle Me Elmo
The original Furby had regimented programming that created the illusion of a customized experience. But extended play revealed the same sounds and movements as it migrated from speaking Furbish, its native tongue, to English.
Explains Paulson: “We envisioned Furby as not a toy, and this packaging really reinforces that.”
The new version has upgraded sensors and a computerized brain that will alter its behavior depending on how it’s treated, according to Hasbro. Pet it nicely and play music for it, and the creature may act more fun-loving. Shake it upside down, and it could become ornery. New Furbies can interact with other Furbies in the same room by sending out and reading inaudible tones. 






Nathalia Gjersie - children only attribute mental states to toys that are attachment objects - ritual relational identity objects - it’s not just familiarity - “emotional attachment combined with personifying features such as a face.”
“Children’s movies manipulate with astonishing ease our tendency to attribute mental lives to inanimate object. 
Animism and anthropomorphism do not quite describe what we do with characters. 
“Children to do not anthropomorpjise inanimate objects.
87% of attachment objects were soft toys. 
Is digital harder because no physical affordance, literally everything has to be done from scratch. 
No major difference between the sexes.
Whether children attribute physical attributes or mental attributes - “would it get lonely or dusty in the box”
Seems to suggest that mental states are more defining than physical states for living beings. 
Is a face necessary to attribute mental state? Or just emotional attachment?
Experiment #2 - more mental states attributed to attachment toys. But kids want normal toys as well as attachment toys. Like minor and major characters, need both. 
Emotional attachment is most important, but personifying features help - they still anthropomorphise a security blanket but less so than if it had a face. 
Attachment objects fulfill different roles, not just play - more serious. 
NATHALIA’S TAKEAWAY - ANTHROPOMORPHISM IS NOT UNIVERSAL TO ALL OBJECTS, BUT TO CERTAIN, UNIQUE OBJECTS AND AT DIFFERING INTENSITIES.
We maintain “irrational” anthropomorphic tendencies for attachment objects into adulthood, paprticularly when under mental strain. Or when lonely - a need for social connectedness. Lonely people anthropomorphise more. 
“Many children had to override visual similarity (between their attachment toys and the stuffed toys onscreen, as opposed to the living animal) in order to give mentalising responses” - this suggests that the act of consensus is a conscious one, and an active one, that is harder in cases when the “make-believe” is challenged. I.e. spoilsporting to point out that the toy dog is not real?
“People attribute more coomplex mental states to others who they like than those they dislike.”



Gizmodo New Furby Review - “absolute horror” - performative horror - it is now humourous and culturally performative to point out failures of paracosm.
“From some ethereal hell-domain”
“Neon-animatronic gremlin toy designed to be handled regularly by children” - yep, that’s the commercial imperative!
“Is grotesque. It is a terror. It is a mile marker on the road to techn dystopia. Kids will love it.”
“A toy for kids has eyes filled with liquid crystal diodes and an unfathomable number of transistors.”
“Robots will be ubiquitous toys for tots”
“You don’t really ‘use’ the Furby so much as you willingly subject youself to it.”

The NSA warning I quite specific - ascribes specific technology to the Furby.”
The independent (newspaper) even says it mimics! Nobody checked!











“Evil robotic children’s toy wrapped in coloured fur”
Uses high-pitch audio to encode data
A TECHNICAL APPRAOCH  - a hidden theatrical technique.
2-piece circuit board - almost mythological. 
Put in epoxy - make it harder to reverse engineer. 
Taking apart audio protociol - created a list of commands - personalities can change
Princess/Diva/Warrior/Joker/Gossip/Queen
Should this be in player relationship as well?
Commands cover its performative, seemingly organic reactions to different kinds of food. 
Sleepy, burping, farting, waking up, happy, coughing, touching various parts of body, sneezing, yawning, speaking, laughing,     		singing, listening, purr, talking. 
Varied reactions by different personalities to limited set of stimuli.

Is what I am making really an automata, a plaything? Were automata thought of as profound in any sense. Is it a problem if it is a toy? Include automata in toys?


Furby is a “yammering, demanding being”
“Reactive, verbal and engaging creations that more or less unpredictably, depending on the circumstances” - but very small possibility space for that unpredictability! We grok them very easily. Toys are no more fun once we have found their conceptual boundaries. 
“Children’s toys, write large, have always echoed the hopes and dreams (and priorities) of adults.”
“Encountering a quirky, nonhuman but thoroughly real intelligence is a thrilling experience and to some extent some people instinctively recognise such an intelligence as life.”]
It has 1/10billionth of human capaccity.
Simple mechanically - one driveshaft.
“A robot with ping-pong ball eyes and a circuitboard for a diaphragm.”
We like things to remember things - its a form of flattery.
“By the time it is fully mature, each Furby is a reflection of its owner” - only in their head.
“Infinite flexibility” of human intelligence. 
AI works best in specific environments - like liturgy/ritual etc.!
The sciences article compares Furby to AI. 




Tara Woodyer - Material Sensibilities - “everyday embodied relations and domestic practices of toys”
“Toys are senuous, tactile” - bodily connections to play
Ludic geography
She modifies magic circle - not just step outside everyday, Woodyer sees the everyday refracted and transformed. Toys are “in and of the everyday”. Are things different for anicent times? Toys used to be sacred and special? No evidence for that - toys played with mundanely throughout history. 

If the toy does not mover, treat it more roughly.
“Robotic animals exhibit both ‘living’ and ‘pretend’ qualities.” - they are boundary objects - how does it affect them being software-based.
Children might say that toys are not real, but treat them as real or intentional when playing - my hteory vindicated.
“We are living in a world that lies halfway between fantasy and reality.”
Contradiction between verbal and beahvioural reaction from children. 



Andreas P Francis - interactive toy study - children playing with either static toy, light interactivity (slightly-moving cat) and full, ‘heavy’ interactivity (AIBO dog). (Creature is moving along this field. Though obviously did not move as a toy, could not be moved, as exists in a separate world and not on a mobile device.) Compared anthropomorphised versus nonanthro language, to see if they thought of it during play as a living thing or an object - how they talked about it, gendering, words used, how they carried it, ‘intrustive exploration’ - if they think it is real,give it personal space. 

Adults don’t think that AIBO is real, but children confuse fantasy and reality?

Children talk to robot with anthropomorphic language even when they have said not real. “Children often did not view the word ‘real’ as the same thing as ‘alive’ - ‘real pretend dog’ - all this means is they know it is a physical object, not that they are saying ‘it’s really pretend’. The magic circle allows pretend to be real, you see. 

“The more antrhopomorphic language that was used with the toy, the less likely they were to physically handle the toy as an inanimate object.”

 Mobile phones don’t tend to be attachment objects.







Toys vs. Art
Interested in “object agencies” like Sherry Turkle’s “evocative opbjects” - how they effect us, “motivate inferences, interpretations and responses” - the paracosmic.
Not just as artefacts - they are used and played with. 
Fan fiction is a form of literature as toy, as tool. 





Sherry Turkle “Alone Together” by Rafael Behr - Furby “it has no intelligence, but it can fake attachement.”
TURKLE says we “filter companionships through machines… [soon] accept machines as compantions.
When given Furbies (mostly elderly people) “universally, a bond is formed.” Funny that it is people at start and end of life. 
“The difference between playing with a doll and playing with a robot is the difference between pretence and belief.” - really? Isn’t an atavisitic response, and not belief? I’m happy with pretence, paracosm, the magic circle.




Dan Judkins - “The original Furby was this very sweet emotional experience.”

Why are Furbies less successful now?

New furby with lcd eyes - less mask-like, more representative (but also more symbolic)

“What’s the most alive thing a toy can do?”

“The original Furby had regimented programming that created the illusion of a customised experience.”

Furby’s popularity due to media whip-up aided by toy copanies.



Nathalia - “emotional bond to a toy seems to make children think about them as more human-like”


Cannot force attachment objects.
If it has a face, easier to imagine attachment objects.
Objects is a replacement for emotional security offered by mum and dad




Fruby’s seedy personality - is it emergent. Sense-making as technology and as character. 

Character as a destabilising force in how we understand the world  - mutation, “interference”.

Toy Talk - barbie voice rcognition - would people tell a machine things in confidence - re. ELIZA.
Tell me anything - it’s not being recorded. 

Perhaps adults go from the older-child perspective of wanting to master the world to going back into childhood and artificially stimulating their animist tendencies?





Why am I takeing a biological route (that is, attmepting to render everything in the creature, even its deepest spiritual qualities, as objexts beneath the skin.)
- Am I denying this opacity which Turkle talks about which is intrinsic to computers. No, you don’t always know what the orangs do - a chance to ovivisect our characters. It doesn’t’ mean that I am explaining everything - behaviour is still emergent. How much can you control it, like a tool (re. Galvanic response).
We can influence a person’s psychology biologically. 
Trying to close the mechanistic barier. 
Maybe adults are too set in believing that computers are not psychological so we need to go back to biology. We are focussed on the psychological accuracy of our characters.
Of course, the character as environemnt is a metaphor. I have taken a position. 
How are characters different from peopel.
- Courting a chance to see it as truly alive, to provoke paracosms.










Significant Objects
—————————

“Accurately and objectively determine whether significance-driven value could be artificially injected into insignificant objects” - their value is created autocosmically.
Measured empirically (by value) - not just anecdotal/
Has made journalists and marketers happy (r.e. Weiden & Kelly’s curated “retail environment” SKU) - commercial misuse of autocosmics.
“It turns out that onc you start increasing the emotional energy of inanimate objects, an unpredictably chain is set off.”
Some were about the people who owned the objects, some were about the objects themselves - individualised.
“Living betas non-living” - living things are more resonant.
“Explicitly fictitious stories about insignificant objects can measurably increase these objects’ “significance value”” (I.e. resonance).
An exercise in ‘citizen science’./
Author fame nor talent made any difference.
ALSO NOTED THAT STORIES THAT ARE MADE INTO OBJECTS (I.E. ARE HANDWRITTEN RATHER THAN JUST PRINTED) HAD THE BIGGEST INCREASE IN SIGNIFICANCE VALUE - THEREFORE THE UNUSUAL TEXTUAL FORMS THAT I AM USING COULD BE VINDICATED.
Even uses the word ‘totem’ - objects from the natural world… they are tutelary spirits - didactic spirits
And talismans - they are alive to the magic of objects.

“Common misconception” of furbies repeating words said around them

Furby - sensors located at the biological simulacra on the toy. Biological metaphor.

Overcome adult’s fear of playing woiith toys.

News story re. Evil furby - “less-friendly version if doesn’t djow enough effection”
Though simple, not always predictable or desirable.

Nathan Greenslit - “the child manipulates external phenomena in the service of the dream”

Think about my childhood toys

The imagination allows you to “safely experience powerful emotions”

Turkle - objects “produce us” into specific beings.”



Winnicott - “throughout life we continue to search for objects we can experience as both within and outside the self”.

Which toy will be the ‘one’?



