Olivier de Sagazan (sculptor and performer) - talks about the artist as a “virus” - “their fragments resurface within us” (A big influence for the project).



Not just self-communing characters - also characters who act in certain ways without giving us direct access to their thought.

 narrative theory has been concerned for too long
primarily with the privacy of consciousness


“Amalgamating knowledge circulating orally with that obtained by reading.”

“Amalgamating knowledge circulating orally with that obtained by reading.”

Passages copied out were often badly spelt and grammatically poor, using lists of latin and hebrew words, occult symbols, astrological symbols.


Richard Lyne - “only Scripture words, or only very good words, are used in their charms”
Passages copied out were often badly spelt and grammatically poor, using lists of latin and hebrew words, occult symbols, astrological symbols.


Richard Lyne - “only Scripture words, or only very good words, are used in their charms”
All interrelated and mixed up together (cognition, emotion, stance of mind etc.)



Interest in "self-communing" characters - characters that think to themselves, and to which the reader has access. In books, we have access to these thoughts.

One of the pleasures of reading novels is the enjoyment of
being told what a variety of fictional people are thinking.








 a sphere of its own to be considered, and out of which, it is arguable, our division between the artistic and the mundane arises. It is a division which Wolf maintains in his own definition. The aesthetic illusion is apart from the everyday illusion precisely because of its aesthetic origin; in the words of Gombrich, it is a "guided projection", based upon and supervised by an "inciting representation" (Wolf).  In its artificiality, Wolf argues, it may be distinguished from the accidental or unconcious imaginings of the everyday world



We might return to Forster, the arch-stylist, and his "word-masses" here, and a curious exercise he undertook towards the end of his life, long after completing arguably his most famous work, A Room With A View. Fifty years later, he wrote a much-reviled afterword, 'A View Without A Room', in which he summarily dismantled much of the book's confident and blissful ending, in which "passion [is] requited, love attained" (Forster, 1958), sharply and shortly revealing the course of his character's lives, their depressions, their betrayals and their mundanities after this lingering fade. There is not a huge amount of scholarship devoted to this "curt and baffling" epilogue (Kent, 2013), and the views on it are divisive. Most vernacular reviews that I could find, mostly in the comments sections of blogs and forums (Ramya 2015, Kerry 2012), hated it as "bitter" and "cynical"; it left them feeling
  "disillusioned", and ruined the tone of the book.  Some argued that it was written as tongue-in-cheek, a character-writer writing about character-writing; Kent, in the most in-depth discussion of the chapter that I could find, called Forster himself "disillusioned" and "wearied" (2013), and treated it as a serious (if less artful) extension of the characters, reinforcing many of the darker elements present at the end of the text which are often missed in the protagonists' consummation. To me, it provides an example of both the nomadicism and infungibility of character; the reactions of the audience, and the work of Forster, show us that character is not just a 'device'; there is a sort of personhood there, or at least an encompassable concept, which must be managed carefully.

Reading Rembrandt (+ review)
-------------------
Focus on iconography in art - being guided to study the details, which stand as a sign for absent details - usually a narrative of some sort.
'Reading' in the sense of connecting the iconography of paintings to specific traditions, not just "see[ing] 
Specificity of reader and author is important

Rembrandt is not just the man, but a "complex historical product of 'works and responses to them'"
Poised between old and new - both not exalting the artist as sole genius and not 

p.75 - drama is about recognition, seeing the truth of things.

Harold Laswell - theories of “transmission” communication - getting meaning across (tied to empathy, isimulation etc. 
Communicator -> transmitter -> (channel) -> messages -> receiver -> effects