

As Grimm explains, the spell tells the nesso worm and its nine young ones to begone, away from the marrow to bone, bone to flesh, flesh to hide (skin), and into the strâla or arrow, which is the implement into which the pest or pathogen is to be coaxed.[15] It closes with the invocation: "Lord (Drohtin), let it be".[17] 


Bristol essay in BTWT states that public discourse does not necessarily reflect private belief. 
Ran counter to the supposed ‘enlightenment’ tone of intellectual life at that period.


Setting up an interview with the spirit, testing it with scratches.
“In yet another sense, the women involved in the case were pursuing a path independent of their male advisers, challenging not only their understanding of what was happening in spiritual terms but also their preferred human solutions.”
“The public world still offered many cultural resources to justify the opinions of Dyer and his circle, if properly deployed.”
“A simple dichotomy between ‘believers’ and ‘sceptics’ fails to do justice to the range of both convictions and doubts about what was happening and how best to react to it which could be felt by those involved.”
“It was still possible, as I hope I have shown, to justify beliefs in witchcraft, even on enlightened principles. Yet the price to be paid for doing so, in terms of the spiritual priorities of those who might have sought to defend the reality of witchcraft, was increasingly one that did not seem worth paying.”

Spontaneous folk belief, not based on elite writings: (Wilby) - not an ‘elite construction’. 


Marks funereal rituals (and perhaps ghosts and spirit systems) as a tension between inability to remove one's intentional stance to the dead other and needing to remove the physical, possibly diseased physical reminder of them. And that these characters could evolve, free of physical reality, 

Marks funereal rituals (and perhaps ghosts and spirit systems) as a tension between inability to remove one's intentional stance to the dead other and needing to remove the physical, possibly diseased physical reminder of them. And that these characters could evolve, free of physical reality, 

He talks about "intentional objects" (reference this when we are talking about there being a connect between the idea of 'God' and whatever caused the thing itself, and the tangling together of these two - that 'God' becomes an embodied, characterised referent for whatever is causing the apparent pattern. Very similar to what we are doing with characters. It doesn't matter if God exists or not - he is somebody to talk around, characterised and an explication of the world. He draws attention to the fact that belief is a thorny subject - for what is it that we are believing in? If just the concept, then no different, surely, than that of a fictional character?
"mists of incomprehension and failure of communication" are "design features of religion"

"saturating the human environment with folk psychology"
"candidates to press into service as decision aids"
There seems to be something approaching consensus that it is cruel and malicious to interfere with the life-enhancing illusions of others"

206 - charts the diminishing anthropomorphism of religion since ancient times.

p97 - 100 - he talks about cargo cults as e.g. of religion as "intentional stance"

"the raw materials of religion"

This simulatory component is what distinguishes empathy, for many scholars, from sympathy. Rather than perceiving another being as other, the other is taken within the mind and experienced in simulation as a model for the Self in  a “perspective-taking” (cite) exercise (though some scholars believe that the difference between them is too minor to state categorically (Dunn, 1988).

Leading on from Winnicott's 'transitional objects' – starting to distinguish between inner fact and outer reality, leading to sense of self, “not-me”, controllable, need less as time goes on. From pleasure principle to reality principle in first year of life. “the whole intermediate territory between inner psychic reality and the external world” 

McCorduck on Brazen Heads; another example of autocosmic, supposedly intelligent beings that we respond to as if intelligent. mixed up belief and play, tied to the creation of the clock.

Religion as instinct, and may actually be better to have a general myth that everybody agrees on (and which we all end up following becausse everybody does) than misunderstanding the actual reason on our own. "better safe than sorry"
Magic circle - "there are good spells and there are bad spells"

Such a conception arises from the inherent power, and extrapolative capability, of the autocosmics that generate them; our associative power is difficult to control, incredibly compulsive to our behaviour and personalities, and is ultimately mutable because of the unstoppable stream of updated information, evidence and counter-evidence that floods in throughout our lives. It can refer to purely wrong beliefs, or indeed beliefs that lie outside of official avenues of discourse; and for much of human history, such discourses (however right or wrong they may seem) have been represented by the dictate of organised religion,

"object relations" can mean between abstract objects as well as objects themselves.
"whole symbolic environment of the household" - in superstition and object relations now.


McCorduck - all dolls are magic. 'graven images' - A fight over territory "keep separate the sacred and the profane"

the rite (huizinga) "causes the worshippers to participate in the sacred happening itself" - it creates the sacred. The sacred comes from autocosmic action.

"driven by the demands of a dangerous world, [the brain] is deeply biased in favour of noticing the things that mattered most to the reproductive success of our ancestors"

 Frans de Vaal - a “mammalian characteristic” -> communicate at an emotional level with our pets. Emotional empathy in voles. Goes against the idea that everything is based on selfish motives in the animal kingdom (in his book Empathy: Its Ultimate & Proximal Bases), and opens up intriguing debates on theory of mind in animals. Some see it, however as HIS autocosmics.

"From birth, therefore, the human being is concerned
with the problem of the relationship between what is
objectively perceived and what is subjectively conceived

 - Saxe - understanding our own actions both outwardly and in providing causation, using a theory of mind both ways. Proposes a model of understanding actions the same for self and other, the difference being between perception of action and explanation of action. Theory of mind allows us to predict and explain actions, not just plan and execute them.
Of," 