
TRANSMEDIA AND THE FACT THAT KNOLE IS COMPUTATIONAL
Project knole is undoubtedly centred on the masterbeast, the computational character at the heart of the work entire. The other media and artforms are defined by their relationship to this central element, and it is thematically, physically and visually the focus of the audience's experience. 
- and again I need to define my terms. For final time
Mangen & Velay - media and human thinking effect and evolve bilaterally
mixed reality installation "connect physical space to virtual worlds" (Birringer)
Mention digital heritage then.
Where does it take elements from - reactive installations - ken goldberg
Mixed reality and interactive / reactive installation (Jim Campbell, Debra Poulson, Cardiff and Miller), transmedia objects with computational as one of their media (Freeman)
AR (Bolter) - digital information integrated into [the] immediate physical environment. "augmented virtuality" is really what I'm doing, but he says that it is a little-used term. AR "acknowledges the physical world rather than eliding it" like VR does.
Points out use of AR for cultural heritage since the mid-90s
Computational art can be in heritage as well.
It is also a work of cultural or 'digital' or 'virtual' heritage. - look up definition from my talk.
"participatory sculptural environm,ents in which the viewer's spatial and temooral experience with a given iexhibition space and the various objects within it forms part of the work itself" - installation in general.
"installation often overlaps with other genres of art"
"Many installations artworks are cosnolidated into the common denominator of bits at some point in the production, dissemination and/or reception of the work without being..."
Installations that do this - Glowflow, Artificial Changelings, Osmose
Transmedial fiction - "a fictional world that exists across distinct media and art forms"
might be "transfictional" - different compositions that are linked at the level of fictional world. (Saint Gelais, 2005) - but not by Ryan's defintiion, that says they are two different but interrelated worlds.
Jill Walker's "distributed narratives" (2004) - narratives that cannot be experienced in one consecutive period of time. 'Distibution in space' as well. and 'Distribution of aithors'
It is more along the lines of Jenkins' theory of 'transmedia stroytelling' - lots of medias contributing to a whole.
It is 'intracompositional' in Christy Dena - lots of different media within one piece of work.
Glau - Art history is media history, history of technology.
If an artist makes a choice to use a specific media, they should be looking to all the potentials of the medium to give them a unique way to ignite the audience's imagination. 

“the real subject of landscape writing is not landscape, but a restructuring of the human attitude towards nature—and there can be few subjects more urgent or necessary of our attention than this.” - landscape is reader-response to place.

Adler - 'ruin value' -  "what remains has a specific value regardless of those aspects which have vanished: indeed it is precisely that which endures which imbues the ruin with its quality. This resonates with Auguste Perret’s famous maxim that ‘architecture is what makes beautiful ruins’. " An environmental character from active human society. This is why we have leaned on them so much in the virtual world.





DEFINITION OF COMPUTATIONAL ART

Computational art, however, is a term which sits at the nexus of many muddled human artefacts, products and processes which involve modern computer technology, in some way - lots of different terms for it. Some are almost correct. What distinguishes it? What are the potentials and the specifics of medium.
DIGITAL AND NET ART - "no agreement" on how to name digital art - "creative use of computer technology"
"In many ways, digital art falls in the cracks between artistic catefoeis and academic disciplines."





New Media -We might speak of "new media", as Manovich defines it,  "culture undergoing computerization" (2001); media which is produced by, incorporated within and experienced using the digital computer. The new media are oriented towards
action, not contemplation; towards the present, not tradition - Enzensberger
New Media (John Hopkins) - the term is "qualitative and changing"
Points out carolyn marvin says it is a "Historically relative term"
 However, for my methodology such a term is too general; it does not explicitly denote a type of art, and indeed includes many non-artistic works. Instead, we might say that computational art is a subset of new media.





Digital art - Marcos - "displaying information content by materializing concepts in a digital format." - "art that explores the digital media as a process or tool for creation, as an end product... or as an artistic topic" - I am interested in a subset of this.Christiane Paul - "emergence of entirely new forms" - draws distinction between this and traditional forms of art. Christiane Paul (2008) - "digital art takes many forms"Chrisstiane Paul - Digital Art - the difference between using digital tools to produce static artworks and producing digital artworks.
Book Listing - New Media - "the cultural and artistic practics made possible by digital technology"
John Hopkins Interactivity - "rarely been defined", "buzzword"
DIGITAL FICTION - not "only literature in digital media" (Simanowski, 2009)
Points out that digital is not a property of just technologyical objects. Language is digital, as opposed to other types of communication (building on Bateson and Wilden's work) 
DIGITAL AND NET ART - Concept loses "heuristic power" if we include 'digitised' works.
 Similarly, the concept of the 'digital', and 'digital art', is misleadingly broad; referring to the base qualities of the technology which the masterbeast uses (discrete, manipulable collections of binary numbers which represent information on a computer system (Chandler & Munday, 2016)) but too poorly-defined to demonstrate the significance of those base qualities to the creation of an artwork or a character.
Christiane Paul - “digital art” - Bruce Wands in art in the digital age states that just "digitally-generated" stuff is not typically considered to be "digital art" – the media used is less important than the techniques at their centre. Christiane Paul makes this distinction as well. 


Virtual - grau's def shows not limited enough.


 "Interactivity", or "interactive art", while naively apropos, is similarly "slippery... ambiguous and ill-defined" (Zimmerman). The masterbeast is, at least in part, defined and distinguished from other components of the project by its material and manual interactivity, by its "ergodicism" (Newman); by how, as I shall define, an audience traverses the artwork with a degree of agency and decision. However, this is not a unique or particular trait to computational art; from the forum theatre of Augustus Boal (Frasco) to choose-your-own-adventure paperbacks, and unto the experimental writings of the Oulipo movement (Enard, Queneau), and indeed the experience and operation of the project's installation space itself (cite), material interactivity is not what distinguishes and defines computational art.
 It is, instead, a fluid and natural arising of what does distinugish this sort of art, rather than itself being "the unique cultural discovery of the electronic age" (Laurel). - show this more in the next section.
Examples of “interactive” installation art which are not computational. Roy Ascots change-paintings.



Technological art - digital media is just another technology - 
Galkin - "techno-artistic hybrids" - the technology is "included in the content" - is this any different.
 The term 'technology' is not much better; while there is a naive correlation in popular thought between 'technology' and 'the digital computer' (cite), technology is much older and broader in its definition than this; as Broeckemann defines it, simply "the abstract by which people engage with technics" (Broeckemann), or the means by which people operate things and concepts. All art is the operation of concepts, and requires some technology to be represented and operated; as such, all art is "inextricably linked" (Mullaney) to technology in some manner, and so the phrase "technological art" amounts to a tautology.
Makes point that technology is often seen as the new. (Norman)








Game - big part of what I am doing. "the term game includes a wide variety of disparate activities", difficult term (part of my argument) - "not all interactions with the objects we call games result in gamelike activities." - " a considerable proportion of what are called games nowadays are in fact extended virtual environments which contain a game or multiple games within them." new media artefacts not yet readily counted amongst the arts, Wolf says! 
"the boundaries between artwork and game start to blur" Not my only point of reference - "commercial art and popular culture" on one side, and "elite forms of contemporary media art" - 
Mentions the "institutional level" - being enshrined in law. In Germany, France, even in Iran (ortega)
"a technological kind of popular art" - often come from popular culture genres,
Discussion of difference between 'digitized' and 'born-digital' - i would go further than this - a photoshopped image is 'born-digital', but has no computation. 
ALOGRITHMIC EXPERIENCE - Sees the games-as-art debate as over.
"virtual environments allow for activities in their spaces that cannot
be easily folded into the fi eld of games in general. "
Anthropy thinks the word game can be used unproblematically - the problem is of a lack of shared language, more holistic language.
Dan Shaw (2001) - back then, they were still struggling to be seen as art.
He is against the word 'game' - prefers 'fancy'
Jeroen Stout - Points out difference between game as game and game as computer thing. 
a "continuation of existing human behaviour from the physical to the virtual forms" - yes, but still important. Yes, but not everything is gamelike - will talk about this in next section.
Don't like the word 'fancy' - I don't really see how it delineates it from other artworks. It deliberately doesn't! Fancy’ is proposed to mean an artefact relating to the usage of the involved imagination
 Video games are games, yes, but more impor-
tantly they are software systems; this must always remain in the fore-
front of one’s analysis












FINAL DEFINITION AND EXAMPLES

Computational still deficient - choose-your-own-adventure books - better to say digital computational art, but this confuses it either further. No term is perfect, and 
Points out D&D is computed as well.
Not just about the intersection of art and new technologies - about computationality as part of the artwork itself.

- computation - from original latin (to settle an account, to manipulate or come to a conclusion)
Jeroen Stout doesn't like the emphasis on CPU - He doesn't like this focus on CPU - but for me it is a medium definition. 

What he thinks is computer art - human/programming/computeing shpaed by generative, hypertexctual and modular procedures 


Mullaney - He also does not want to focus on a interactive-  more about the system, what he calls 'action-based'.


John Hopkins History Of Computers - Computation is both following instructions and creating new information.
"manipulation of symbols of all kinds capable of delivering radically new forms of art... and social experiences"
As has already been shown in this thesis, any nominal, collectivising term is bound to have inconsistencies and compromises. Like the options above, 'computational' has many problems, especially when we try to use it to define a very nebulous collection of cultural products that all involve the digital computer. Computation, generally, is the process of "calculation" (Nicholson, 2016), a term as woolly as any other, and which could, arguably, be applied to many non-digital, non-mechanical works of art throughout history; the imaginative and generative calculation of improvisational theatre (cite), for example, or the combinatorial and procedural qualities of many Oulipan works (Matthews & Brotchie, 2011). However, I am happy to hijack the term's more popular meaning of 'associated with the modern electromechanical computer in its many forms' in the aid of my compromise. 


p217 - "new media objectst that "aestheticise" information processing" - this is what we are doing.

Computation is like the methodological interpretation of 'procedural'.

To define the boundaries of this discourse, I would state that computational artworks are works of aesthetic, human-derived self-expression which utilises the computational, systemic and procedural "affordances and constraints" (Boluk et al, 2016) of digital computer technology as an integral part of the work's dissemination, operation and received experience. Such a discourse includes examples of (but not necessarily every example of) "digital art" (Paul), videogames, "artgames" (Parker) and "notgames" (Samyn, 2010) , "interactive experiences" (Candy and Ferguson, 2014), "interactive drama" (Wardrip-Fruin), digital installation art (Manovich, 2001, Dreher), interactive fiction (Boluk et al, 2016) and other artistic "cybertexts" (Aarseth), hypertext art (Trotter, 2014), networked art (Baeke and Marseille, 2012), web-art (Carpenter, Dreher), generative art (Barbosa, 1977), algorithmic art (Nake, 2014), some robotics projects (Damith and Kroos, 2016), code poetry (Montfort), augmented reality art (Tanenbaum and Tanenbaum, 2010), the 'visual novel' (Love, 2010), locative art, "pervasive games" and augmented reality (Hight, Knowlton and Spellman, 2002, Speakman), virtual reality (Wardrip-Fruin, 2002) some digital poetry (Marquet and Wolfson, 2016) and many other instances of "algorithmic culture" (Galloway).

Mullaney - 
Lots of different types of 'electronic computational device' or 'machine'
He points out the importance of 'data'

HCI book – still a “Process of information transfer?
talks about digital performance and techno performance or cyberperformance (Stognic)
"necessarily includes the interactive //input-output// relation between the organic and technological systems and is realised in cyberspace.
DevArt - "art made with code" - this is (usually computational art) - Barbican and Google
Artistic Videogames/Virtual Video Art - Alien Afterlife, Uncle Sad Bedroom, Ian Cheng.
Who does chapters in John Hopkins
brendan dawes data art, Char Davies - VR art. Osmose and Ephemere
Christiane Paul - Digital Art, some 'game art' -What Gamescenese defines as game art - contemporary art and videogames (between the two) - matteo bittani. 
William Latham (Evolutionary Art) -Mutator 1+2
Videogame art - Lawrence Lek - Shiva's Dreaming Mixing of videogames - Peter Burr's CAVE EXITS
Robotic works as well - Rinaldo - autopoesis
Algorithmic Art - Edmonds, Mohr, Molnar, Nake, Verostko ("algorists")
systems art - Edmonds
I'm interested in the narrative subset of this.
"Reactive Robotics" - Rodney Brooks and Luc Steels - small brains
"software art" (anthony head)
net-art like LOVE by Group Z (Michael Samyn)
hypertexts, 'digital fiction', network fiction, interactive fiction (DIGITAL FICTION SECTION) 
"would lose something" if not in that medium - (Bell and Ensslin, 2011)
"take advantage of the capabilities and contexts provided by the stand-alone or networked computer"
"confronttion with technology at the level of creation" , "born-digital"
dependency on computer for 'aesthetic effect' - problem with aesthetics, but computer, yes. And what does a computer do? (DIGITAL AND NET ART)
ArtGames - Eddo Stern
"nontrivially modfified by a computing process in their conception and/or presentation"





Shares a lot with videogames - that is where a lot of my evidence comes from - more narrative than others
own methdological and theoretical background comes from the realm of the 'videogame', as far as such a thing can be distinguished from other forms of computational art. Videogames are perhaps the most universal and extensive forms of 'computational art' that most people experience, "participat[ing]... in global trends" (costikyan), with a diverse portfolio of themes, styles and concerns for both the scholar and the artist, the amateur enthusiast and the 'literate', engaging cultural denizen; 
Ryan defines them as the equivalent of the novel, in their artistic application within a medium (Ryan).
Game has a "long, non-wired history" (Wardrip-Fruin and Harrigan)
"adaptable to any and every technology" (Costikyan). 
the term 'game' places certain discursive strictures upon the sort of work that can be included in our definition
Troublesome term , not least in trying to define the boundary between that and art
a debate in which  "countless writers [have] weigh[ed] in" (Zimmerman) and which has often been extremely public and vociferous (Ebert, Moriarty, Santiago). 
The different sides - not art, is art, game-art is different from games (Samyn) 
Many scholars believe that the term 'game' can be used generally to refer to many kinds of 'interactive experience' or computational art (Zimmerman, Costikyan, Mullaney, Tavinor), 
I sidestep this debate - capable of artistic force; they are capable of using technology to achieve "expressive goals" (Smuts), "engage social reality" (Crowley), "communicate ideas... even social messages", using an "obvious aesthetic element" to do encourage "contemplation... reflection and purpose" (Mullaney). They now exist a form of protected speech in the US (Brown vs. Entertainment Merchant's Association, 2011), precisely because of these qualities. 
The arguments that most extant games do not have artistic value, as well as being subjective opinion, is misleading; a confusion of genotype with phenotype. 
An entire artform cannot be conflated with its earliest efforts at self-definition; such mistakes have occured in film (Sklar), the comic-book (), photography () and even the novel (). 
In my view, the hostility towards games-as-art is often a misplaced concern over the nature of narrative in videogames, a concern which warrants further investigation. 
Mullaney - call it
the “thirty-year rule,” starting from the invention of a medium and
ending at its ascent to proper and widespread functioning in culture
at large.
Examples for people poo-pooing comics, photography, the novel. (and check Robert Sklar for film, as well.
Though it is an installation, it shares more with videogames. (such as edward ahnatowicz in the 70s, Gordon Pask - cybernetic serendipity), 


	
	




Mullaney - "their artistry, their political possibility, their uniqueness"

Digital games, running on screens, breathing through speakers, are capable of presenting
visual and audio information to the player. Images, animation, sounds, music. We can use these channels to communicate the rules of our games, to emphasize and underline the important interactions.Animation as well
