 The solitary player-character explores the "emptiness of the environment" (Bogost),  performing he paradigmatic, easily-rendered physical and ludic actions and collecting pre-authored and static narrative components which represent the characters as foregone conclusions, with no need for present execution. Instead, the systemic, interactive procedure is dedicated to spatial exploration and manipulation of these objects, rather than a systemic or interactive procedure centred on those characters in a 'live' sense.
my participants agreed: In my study, characters were merely 'extras' to the main focus – engaging with the environment, to which he 'didn't pay too much attention'. It was the complex worlds, rather than the characters themselves, that held their narrative attention.
Must look at why we are obsessed with death, and broken worlds, as a way to allow agency, to overcome technical approaches - When we are not finding the corpses of people, we find the corpses of places” - "In time, this self-perpetuating skew becomes a fetish, a fascination, a paraphilia." (I’ve written about this before).
On a functional level (even if there are other characters in the game) – the audience is engaging with the landscape on the level of intimate personhood – computationally and resonantly, it is the closest thing to a character. A type of systemic personhood. 
How can we understand the mind of an actant like environment (drawing on Palmer(Palmer's 'intermental' or 'social' mind - the collective minds of towns, couples, groups of people - beyond the single human.
Chris Crawford - “if you can’t talk to a character, you really can’t have much of an interaction with them” - don’t really agree with this.

 It involves applying some of the ways in which human beings have related towards complex environments – particularly in a social manner, from protoreligious ritual to modern econarratological concerns that  – and applying that to the development of computational character. 
 Autocosmics, however, provides a more systematic approach to this idea. It allows me to ask, as a creator, where I might find exemplars of socialised, imaginative engagement with environments, especially beyond the arts, to allow me to build characters better.


Personfication is your friend - in 19th century personification in art became tired, still a problem in the sciences - we persisted. PErsonification is artful, though, not everyday - but informed politics, science, nature etc. etc. barriers not so clear. "This suggests that personification, like our basic senses, is a very natural way for humans to view, understand and interact with the world of objects."
