“Environmental approach” - encourage actions of a user in such a way as to form a coherent plot

 It is sufficient for the concepts of an animal
to parallel the real world.
The loneliness of Sanctuary.

AV Club Review - “I suspect people will still be bord by Everything”

Being able to actively
traverse and explore an island makes us sensitive
not only to the space itself, but also to its meaning.

Taking an aestheitc stance on the world.
Link to biosemiotics.

“ something larger than you, something rain soaked and wet
like a new child, something evil, everything evil, something that can
read your thoughts, something that is a thing inside a thing inside
of a thing like a nesting doll, something that sprouts wings, some-
thing that was you once, smiling with a white tooth and a kind eye,
something that is you but made of magic. Something magic.”

The Land of Hyrule  - all characters tied to it in some way (unmistakeable Shintoism

What would it be like to be attached to a thing? “Estrangement and confustion, mixed with curiosity and wonder”. This is what I want to do.

A stage setting has no independent life of its own" - doesn't exist without an actor." In games, no! You are within it, you are immersed.

The way we talk about pets Ben Fogle - “ a little black dog who infiltrated my whole life, who showed undiluted loyalty”
Dawn Murray - ‘Rats are intelligent. If they come home and call their rat’s name it will come out and see them. When the rat dies, they return to a very empty home.”

With historical landscapes, memorial areas or heritage sites, the spatial situation of the narrative corresponds to the real-world location of the commemorated events, and the design of the visitor’s tour must take into consideration the constraints of historical reality (Azaryahu & Foote 2008).
Looking beyond the “industrial imagination”

Peppered moth/natural selection - a big self-regulating system at work.

"tonic of wilderness"
Keogh -  when you travel over land you are forced to appreciate just how much land there is, that this place is connected to that place.

“Wilderness” is a matter of scale -> there is always detail deeper down.

Re. Cronon (from Ecocriticism) - ‘landscape of authenticity - nature cannot be pure unless we are absent”
Even naturalists choose to love animals because they are beautiful to them - there is always an agenda (Phil Drabble pg.79)

What is your ecocentric moral position as regards the creature as environment - according to Garrard, should be neutral - “even a biocentric ethic is anthropogenic”.

Langauge is not uniquely human. The machinery of language is speech, but the underlying symbol manipulation is achievable by other animals.

Ridding the local of its parochial resonances, Smith uses scale to offer within the global through literary writing and its interplay with grassroots environmental activism.

 Animals, like the dead, and so many others, have followed this uninterrupted process of annexation through extermination, which consists of liquidation, then of making the extinct species speak, of making them present the confession of their disappearance. Making animals speak, as one has made the insane, children, sex (Foucault) speak. This is even deluded in regard to animals, whose principle of uncertainty, which they have caused to weigh on men since the rupture in their alliance with men, resides in the fact that they do not speak. The challenge of madness has historically been met by the hypothesis of the unconscious

“Bestiality must be killed in animals” - we experiment on animals to assuage ourselves that there is no such thing as unexplainable wildness; we must account for everything. 

Baudrillard is talking ‘a lot’ about the deenchanting of our surroundings. Autocosmics is important to enchantment. Indeed, this is what enchantment is!

Animals have no unconscious, this is well known. Without a doubt, they dream, but this is a conjecture of a bioelectrical order, and they lack language, which alone gives meaning to the dream by inscribing it in the symbolic order. We can fantasize about them, project our fantasies on them and think we are sharing this mise-en-scéne. But this is comfortable for us - in fact animals are not intelligible to us either under the regime of consciousness or under that of the unconscious.

Once animals had a more sacred, more divine character than men. There is not even a reign of the "human" in primitive societies, and for a long time the animal order has been the order of reference. Only the animal is worth being sacrificed, as a god, the sacrifice of man only comes afterward, according to a degraded order. Men qualify only by their affiliation to the animal: the Bororos "are" macaws. This is not of the prelogical or psychoanalytic order - nor of the mental order of classification, to which Levi-Strauss reduced the animal effigy (even if it is still fabulous that animals served as a language, this was also part of their divinity)-no, this signifies that Bororos and macaws are part of a cycle, and that the figure of the cycle excludes any division of species, any of the distinctive oppositions upon which we live. The structural opposition is diabolic, it divides and confronts distinct identities: such is the division of the Human, which throws beasts into the Inhuman - the cycle, itself, is symbolic: it abolishes the positions in a reversible enchainment - in this sense, the Bororos "are" macaws, in the same way that the Canaque say the dead walk among the living. (Does Deleuze envision something like that in his becoming-animal and when he says "Be the rose panther!"?)


Encountering an American Black Bear (Ursus Americanus) is one of the most anticipated experiences for long distance hikers on the Appalachian Trail, and is often alluded to by hikers as the ‘quintessential’ AT experience. For many of the people hiking the trail, bears are seen as embodying the very quality of ‘wildness’ itself, making their presence a potent signifier for the authentic ‘wilderness’ of the Appalachian Trail, and therefore validating the ‘wilderness experience’ that long distance hikers are looking for. Blog posts written by long distance hikers on the AT were reviewed to find narratives written about first-hand encounters with bears. It was found that through embodied encounters between hikers and bears, hikers began to understand bears in more complex and nuanced ways than as mere symbols of the wilderness. Fear of what the bear might do to them encouraged hikers to pay close attention to the bear’s physicality and movement around them. In an effort to decipher what the bear was thinking and intending, hikers engaged in acts of embodied egomorphism. It is also suggested that bears involved in encounters with humans may have experienced a similar interest in the Other.

Taking an approach advocated by Ingold and Kohn - that human life is studied in relation to life more generally. (Like nature writing).

Miall - anthropomorphism important in response to "poetic sublime" (and in chapter #3), Miall 2007)
“Specific strategies for portraying nonhuman agents both emerge from and contribute to broader attitudes toward animal life”
Panpsychism - universally regarded with skepticism, if not outright scorn (IEP on qualia)

This is the scientific definition; however, many people (Helen Macdonald is a good example) find personality in animals in how they cleave to, or represent, the general characteristics of a species. Is this personality, however, individualising, or rather essentialising through allomorphism

Richard Mabey - on wildness, the otherness of animals and how we can have relationships with them, their emotions, our relationship with place, place without us.

No such thing as a “steady-state” ecosystem.
Mechanomorphism just leads to disrespect. A shamanic mystery is OK.
“So many of the transactions between different organisms seem almost incidiental, wildly gratuitous

the narrative incompleteness of images is a powerful generator of curiosity. - far more than a normal narrative.

A good roadtrip game would be long and boring and mundane with an ever-changing landscape demanding your full attention.

Perhaps I need to look up examples of those who talk about the landscape personally, who experience it one-to-one, like a conversation or an argument or a fight. Particularly explorers.

Automata led to the Solipsism and mechanomorphism of Descartes. Did not see that it was his autocosmics that was ascribing life to machine, rather than machinery to life. Indeed, Foucault talked about automata as a way to control and explain nature (Come back to this?)

Heidger - animals confined to a small, ritualistic area, its territory.

Heideger - “feeding not only serves to provide material for metabolism, but also affords physical experiences. 

Even domestication is still a symbolic relation, as opposed to industrial breeding.


It is proportional to this disdain. It is in proportion to being relegated to irresponsibility, to the inhuman, that the animal becomes worthy of the human ritual of affection and protection, just as the child does in direct proportion to being relegated to a status of innocence and childishness.


“What’s salient to the hawk in the city is not what is salient to man” - uexkull, what does the creature care about? Different from what we care about. 

“To anybody who has spent two months training a goshawk… it seems very extraordinary that the complex psychology of a human being cna be taught with a stick” - that’s because the hawk reduces us to a stick. That is all they see us as. They mechanise us! A barrier between us “real, contradictory, self-willed beings”.

 - he’s talking about zoos, but could apply the same to respect for wildness and domestic animals - letting them express themselves. A mix of anthropomorphising and othering - Mabey talks about this a fair amount. This idea of “viciousness” - an animal that does not obey man is vicious (unlike creature), whereas it may come from something else entirely.
o ‘literature as an experiment in place’ (21).

Later - recourse to environment allows animals to be represented complexly in context, at a human level - not below us, but beside us.
"At the same time that we are earnest to explore and learn all things, we require that all things may be mysterious and unexplorable"

"Nevertheless, of all the , perhaps Walden wears best, and best preserves its purity"

“A solitary and ghostly glaucous gull from the Arctic” - animal as character

It would take too long to redo the genealogy of their respective statuses, but the abyss that separates them today, the one that permits us to send beasts, in our place, to respond to the terrifying universes of space and laboratories, the one that permits the liquidation of species even as they are archived as specimens in the African reserves or in the hell of zoos - since there is no more room for them in our culture than there is for the dead - the whole covered by a racist sentimentality (baby seals, Brigitte Bardot), this abyss that separates them follows domestication, just as true racism follows slavery.
Shinto ALL kinds of environments, not just natural ones - has become more animist and natural to reflect changing global sensibilities.

The snow hare - “it had a path too - that I had crossed its path as much as it had crossed mine.”


“Conceptual simplification”
Bown et al talks about autonomy as opposed to reactivity - shift the “locus of control” from the audience.

Poole points out that there is a definite aesthetic tendency - this is about beauty as much as truth. Mabey agrees that this can happen./
Poole criticises the use of anthropomorphism - not really fair…
Poole - “More extended excursions into the forest see nature providing an arena for the elaborate performance of solitude, a backdrop to the drama of the self's encounter with itself.” - are you with yourself, or with nature?
Poole - “ the returning nature-writer brings back to the eager denizens of Stoke Newington or Brooklyn some long-forgotten truth from earlier times – which in myth are always wiser times.”

“Urbanized Western culture increasingly hungry for even second-hand experiences of wildness and wilderness”

According to Greg Garrard, there is an “overemphasis on violence and sex” in nature programming. We must find some gap between this which is meaningful for the creature, as both of those are quite difficult when it has no partner!

"A lake is the landscaop'#s most beautiful expressive feature. It is earth's eye."

The original monstrosity of the beast, object of terror and fascination, but never negative, always ambivalent, object of exchange also and of metaphor, in sacrifice, in mythology, in the heraldic bestiary, and even in our dreams and our phantasms - this monstrosity, rich in every threat and every metamorphosis, one that is secretly resolved in the living culture of men, and that is a form of alliance, has been exchanged for a spectacular monstrosity: that of King Kong wrenched from his jungle and transformed into a music-hall star.

The violence of sacrifice, which is one of "intimacy" (Bataille), has been succeeded by the sentimental or experimental violence that is one of distance.

“he acquires something of the aura of a guru. “

Macfarlane - “a spiritual role model of faintly druidic mien. “

Perhaps there is something in the difference between experiencing the wild and reading about it? The function of the imagination? The importance of understanding the natural world through story and empathy, not just direct experience?

Talks about Montaigne’s ‘Apology for Raymond Sebold’ - anti-cartesian, the personhood of animals. 
 the assumption that there is something close to "mind" in nature 
Intelligence in nature is this deep-time, evolved capacity to adapt, to be creatively resilient


“And though distant walking is currently the favoured mode to revelations about the self and the land, for much of the past two centuries it was rootedness, staying put, which was regarded as the key. The Rev Gilbert White, whose The Natural History of Selborne(1789) was the first work of literary nature writing, spent almost his whole life in that small Hampshire village. His one book was, for its time, a revolutionary exercise in modernism: 

“One’s affections aren’t objective.” (hattersley again”
Roy Hattersley (in Adam Lusher) - “Buster’s death was the most painful thing I had ever experienced, more painful than losing my mother.”

Derrida asks how we know that thinking is so different from sniffing or scenting and “why this zone of sensibility is so neglected or reduced to a secondary position in philosophy and the arts?”
Derrida brings humans and animals together in different ways - zoomorphing humanity. This is perhaps why we should use animal/natural models, instead of human models, for agents in games.
“Thinking concerning the animal derives from poetry”
The prevalence of reinforcement learning in the 50s (Balkenius)
“ an attraction to the exotic and untamed gradually displaced by a reconciliation with the domestic and familiar. “

Extraversion, Neuroticism and Agreeableness Conscientiousness, Openness (by Gosling in 1999) - traits of animal behaviour that will help guide building the creature.

Tim ingold's 'dwelling perspective' - finding a narrative in a known landscape, and domestic geography, which allows the textual representation of this place.

“Nothing will have ever given me more food for thinking… than these moments when I see myself naked under the gaze of a cat.”

Tolman - the cognitive theorists - animals have mind.

Our destiny has never been separated from theirs, and this is a sort of bitter revenge on Human Reason, which has become used to upholding the absolute privilege of the Human over the Bestial.
Meek, Bold, Aggressive, Passive, Lone and Nervous

 The trajectory animals have followed, from divine sacrifice to dog cemeteries with atmospheric music, from sacred defiance to ecological sentimentality, speaks loudly enough of the vulgarization of the status of man himself - it once again describes an unexpected reciprocity between the two.

Herzog, quoted in McF - “there was something unusual in the way I saw Lachenal and everything around us. I smiled to myself at the paltroness of our efforts. But all sense of exertion was gone, as though there were no longer any gracity. This diaphanous landscape, this quintessence of purity - these were not the mountains I knew; they were the mountains of my dreams.”

Darwin opposed animal-as-mechanical view. Difference between humans and animals “is one of degree not of kind”
Behaviourists said that animals cannot have emotional episodes. Or “private mental experiences”
Donald Griffin opposed them.

Parish Maps project - the history of place.
"local distinctiveness"
Change is important as well
The *detail* of places. The character by any other word.
The crux of literature and activism.
The granularity of landscape - a tree can be a landscape!


trees are " tough, enduring, dependable creatures", not "fragile ornaments"
Does not have to be a lonely, singular experience either - just the way I did it.


“Early psychologists… eager to develop a mechanistic psychology - negative autocosmics
this phraseology “that which we call animal” instead of the simpler term “animal.” This is purposeful. For Derrida, the fact that we refer to all living creatures that are not human as “animals” is absurdly reductive. He makes a good point. Lumping together the cricket and the whale, the mountain lion and the parakeet, the giraffe and the marmot, seems lazy and dismissive, yet, as Derrida points out, this is exactly what philosophers from Aristotle to Heidegger are guilty of doing. And part of his project is to shine a light on this unexamined assumption


Heidger talks about the pathic relationship between man and animal - understanding.
"What if all ponds were shallow? Would it not react on the minds of men? I am thankful that this pond was made deep and pure for a symbol"

Shows a new way of looking at non-human relationships - how animals and even places could have “perspective on events, intentionality, agency”


Revealing the space through triangulation in Miasmata (Strik)

Romantic pastoral - no longer had to fear animals, so wanted to conserve them - a bit unfair to call it ‘Romantic’ - aligning with science to show an almost-religious awe with the outside world.

Domestic geography is about ebcomeing a dweller in landscape, not just a traveller moving through it.

Safina sees the insistence on ignoring the concept of animal emotion as making the human unique, dividing us from the animal kingdom - to me, it instead looks like a recognizance of the incredible power of autocosmics; however, it still refuses to accept that autocosmics (which helps society run by letting us understand others) could ever help us to understand animals.

Nature-watching is a sort of narrative before it is plotted for television. Going and coming back, not in an convenient length, but day after day.


“At first galnce glaciers appear destitute of life or interest; attractive only for their qualities of desolation and emptiness.”

“Voicing informed, logical inferences about other animals’ motiviation, emotion and awareness could wreck your career prospects”

“Metaphorical projections that had built up on many animals like old coats of paint.”
"mists of incomprehension and failure of communication" are "design features of religion"	

Epley et al - loneliness or isolation (which I did) increases belief in anthropomorphised agents, heightens senses and emotional state - in chapter #1 and char
Are landscapes individual characters, or do we come to know them as we approach.
Ruskin - “the effect of this strange Matterhorn upon the imagination is indeed so great”

Pug - the footprint of an animal
Aquifer - revealing water - artesian wells

Lyotard - virtual agent by Bates. With goals and moods. A reference for Yocto

Genotypic - baked-in systems
Phenotypic - learned/environmental systems.

When you are watching an animal, more often than not you are watching its environment as much as the creature - therefore this is a wildlife-watching simulator.

Lorenz’ acute observation in an environment-  opposed to behavioourist idea that cannot talk abotu mental states, just experiment on behaviour in laboratories.

Ontology - the delimited definitions and names of all objects and processes within a dicsipline, as oppoised to their uses elsewhere. A domain symbolism.


"It is 'played out' within certain limits of time and place. It contains its own course and meaning." p.9

P. 71 - Polanyi - “we know more than we can tell” - the creature must seem to do this as well. 

Circadian A.I.

It is lots of different agents - animal wildlife, ‘extra’ in village, buddy character, game director, ‘terrain generator’ - all part of the same character, not the same agent - it is its whole environment. 

Schneiderman - “continuous representation of object of interest.”

"the design space of games can be broadened to incorporate richer character design that affect gameplay besides narration".

Marion - heterochrone and homochrone media - is our reception time limited by ourselves or by the work? Can we take our time in an artwork?
"the problem of perceiving pictures in time"



 An attempt to
merge the different theories into a coherent system
would be very welcome.

The spatial relationships between real and virtual - how does this affect character?

Domains/environments of these animals are important as well - Some of
these environments will be new to children and young people, and in themselves may offer chal-
lenges and opportunities for discovery.

Info usually needs to be processed very fast in a game, when things are happening all the time - what about looking, waiting, watching?
"scene composition" is environment design, in a way. Drawing attention to objects, providing respite and changes in pace, shifts in appearance between different zones, placement of objects, how the scene is shaped, the camera - the journey landscape charting the hero's journey, Abzu is similar

Many oulipo constraints are never played out - illusory, paracosmic - rely on the imagination of readers. Like the possibilities of No Man’s Sky. The game’s potential remains potential, the experience is much smaller.

Sees literature as a social "toolkit" (Greyman) - an instructional on social intelligence.

As Laurel says, just because a computer does not manifest its action as an entity, always, does not mean that it is not acting; it always acts.

creature becomes a housebold shrine - the autocosmic, characterful nature of household shrines - the house needing protector, needing an animus - domovoi etc.

.individuals.tend.to.
focus.on.actions.rather.than.inactions.(Byrne.&.McEleney,.2000;.Kahneman.&.Tversky,.1982a)
“The ways dogs and cats have big eyes in the middle of the face.”
Judith Kerr - (in Lusher) - “they are not human, but they do communicate… it’s mostly about food, or getting a door opened, but one is in touch with them”


Norman - make the options in an environment obvious - clicking around in a videogame for what is interactive in an environment. Perhaps then realistic environments are not suited to games, as we cannot make everything purposeful?

Weiz - a computer program is “an amorphous collection of processes whose interactions with one another are virtually fortuitous”.

Taking home representations of the creatures you are no allowed to touch.
Banging the glass to make them move, interaction expected and required, or at least spectacle - we like things to move.
The gorilla sitting, flexing his bamboo furiously, eyes back and forth, being photographed and recapture
The signs constantly tell us that our assumptions are wrong.
A woman passing - “the lion bit was shit” - what are the parameters of “shit”? Visibility? Reactiveness? A balance between unpredictability and servittude. Like a machine, a cabinet.
Animals named, as characters, their stories. The balance, especially in the Reptile House, of theatricality for humans vs. Actual practicailies for animals. 
Character is different from personhood. The zoo observes characterisation but not personhood. 
Was pleased when tigers were illusive.
I felt guilty the whole time I was there.
As Heideger says, humans and their misunderstandings are the problem. 
All exotic animals - extreme, strnage character types.
Meta-texts of labels and information
“He smiled at me” - no he didn’t.
BUt I’m just as bad - I’m assuming a prisoner’s camaraderies with these animals
By going at all, I’m participating.
Allomorphising them is a different autocosm.
A lemon sole with its kill-me eyes.
Not about the creature, after all; it is religious, about the human witnessing a nature god. 
What does the god do once it is out of its sacral, altaresque environment. 
The herons in the penguin enclosure are not sacralised - they are less characters, we fit them in - but in a garden scene they would be exiotic. 
Animals spend most of their time sleeping - do the animals sleeping, or invisible, become more intriguing?
The empty cages still have an animal in them - nobody walks past them and does not imagine the animal that lived in their.
Witnessing poisonous animals is the ultimate autocosmics - we must imagine the poison, the attack, as none of us have beena ttached before.
The snake is its environment, we remember the dart frog in its green logged home. It is demonstrably a different creature elsewhere.
Who are the big hitters, character-wise, in the zoo, and what unites them.
Often soundless because behind glass.
An exhibit is an intensified sliver of environment. 
The context of aquariums -darkness behidn you, the blue light,. What does an animal alone signify - danger, sadness, specialness, rarrity.
What is the purpose of our characterisation? To invest, to indentify, to be entertained, to be drawn to, to acknowledge
A character is always a tool for knowing and finding.
The pressure of their crowdf and the imagination of what they might eb thinking (empathy)
How is it different when you are alone. Not a witness but a participant.
Celebrity animals, returning for them.
"design must decide what the player sees" - I need to think about this.
Good design leads the player—and the camera—to the
things that are important.

" Rise of the Videogame Zinesters offers a whole book on the why and how of making games for yourself rather than for others."
I wonder if it is the quotidian nature, the ‘getting-to-know’ them.
Lusher points out that most people get another pet.
AAT - animals demonstrably improve somebody’s social functioning - is this the opposite, torture an animal?
Miranda July - “we watched this technology being invented and we fee like we should be behind the curtain and there should be no mystery.”
Ben Fogle (in Lusher) -  “Its personality will grow, another equally intimate bond will develop, and that’s the thing. “I never want to experience another day like when I lost Inca, but I know I will. We go ahead, knowing that we will outlive our pets, that all this will happen again. Because grief is the price we pay for love.”


"The churches have been slow to recognise the spiritual significance of the human-animal bond," says Rev Prof Andrew Linzey, an Anglican priest and director of the Oxford Centre for Animal Ethics.
"When a companion animal dies, we feel a natural sense of dislocation and loss. The churches should offer us rites to help us deal with our bereavement."
Discovery Circle work on personaloty traits in domestic cats specifically cats. How to look after such people.


Alice Villalobos - “we can be too emotionally involved and subjective” to know when to have our animals put down. 


IAnimal from animal equality - helping you understand the life of farmed animals.
Just that perspective is enough.


The nature and character of landscapes I have seen; coastline at Newquay, holloways in Kent.


“In the absence of introspective verbal report, we are on shaky ground in attributing particular conscious experiences to animals.”
 
Bachi - Already, in this brief personal reflection, a mixed picture of human relationships with animals
is emerging; enjoyed as pets, protected in the garden, looked and wondered at in captivity, studied
and conserved in the wild.
Nevertheless, in my consulting room I have a
much-handled bag of puppets including a fox, a bear, a rabbit and a box of plastic creepy crawl-
ies, which include flies, spiders and beetles. The books on my shelves also include many chil-
dren’s titles with animals as key figures. I use animal imagery in guided relaxation, if children
ask, and always enquire about family pets. The younger children I meet as in-patients on the
medical wards will almost always have a cuddly toy with them, often a creature. Such compan-
ions are always acknowledged and, if appropriate invited to take part in a consultation.

Animals are not merely the ‘site at which stimuli met responses’.

Inspired by bifrost bridge
We need these advice sites for dealing with grief - always have a reassurance about people not understanding. 
Annie’s letter - animal’s talking to humans, reassuring, anthropomoprhising…
We talk about animals as if we let them live.

HCI book - “the details of computer processing should largely be irrelevant to the end-user


o watch a poor sow,
locked in a cage, unable to move or
turn around, in a facility housing
many others... a breeding facility.
Lying in her own waste, unable to enjoy
contact with her piglets other than by
suckling them is both harrowing and
heartbreaking. The experience places you in
the facility, it is unforgettable.
PETER EGAN
DOWNTON ABBEY ACTOR
Used in court case to show judge the plight of being a farmed pig - to acquit woman of mischief for giving water to slaughter-house bound pigs in a truck.
Use empathy, autocosmics etc.
There are ethical and legal issues with this; can it go too far, make jurors panic, TOO real? Or 
When animals die - we create a place for them to go (Rainbow Bridge) autocosmically
“Miss their owner” - still focussed around us.

wombat "had plenty of attitude"
"lots of snuggles... even selfie opportunities"

slow loris - "curious little faces with wide emotional eyes"
"precious baby, get well after your horrible ordeal" - a commentor on facebook.

Charles Foster - what is it like to be an otter guided by the smell of shit?
I found it impossible to come down the pyramid and become a victim. 
Insomniac Games - used to do enviro first, in preproduction


leblanc's discovery is what we do well-on
Tended to be conformers in the sea, as the environment was very stable - not so on land.
It is not the ecological problem of their survival that is important, but still and always that of their silence.


Iggy the gibbon - teddy bear toy with a heartbeat: thinks it is its mummy.

"cheeky" ape full of energy.
Circannual and circadian
Biological clocks.

Saussure - “meaning of signs are arrived at arbitrarily via cultural convention… the meaning of signs rests not in the signs themselves, but in the surrounding system”.


“Addiction to lucky charms, scapegoats and finger-crossing”

Lack of common ground between machines and humans - the landscape is the mediator then
“In general a machine or animal can only adapt to or operate in a limited class of environments”. - partiality

This is the name of the folder on my computer in which it resided for over three years, and I cannot think of it as anything else. However, the name is not arbitrary; master refers to the process of mastering, of mastered tapes and master copies; of controlling the confluence of disparate components into one monolithic, final whole. beast refers, in part, to the computer's potential unpredictability, its wildness, as opposed to the more-domesticated, linear Housekeeping and the tradition in which it resides. Of course, beasts do not have to be wild; they can be domesticated just as easily, and made to carry great, dulling burdens. Symbolically, then, it is this line between bewildering and predictability, familiarity and alienation, that this simulation was made to tread.

“On a daily basis they generally required nothing more than a bowl of bread, milk, ale, water and so on”

Environment - woman on the train to Scotland - “that’s slovely, isn’t it”


Sam Gentle and Chip - “like alchemy messing with cellular automata”, “patterns stabilising”


Watching teddy really does make you think that he’s computable.

“No doubt foxes would be regarded as acceptable if they came sweetly, day by day, to lap milk from doorstep saucers… instead… branded as outlaws”
Looking at animals is like reading a book, looking in at unierse, a truth of ourselves.


Sagazan 
"it's very positive, in fact"
hsi relation with physiognomy"
the changing of the face changes everything.
"face transforms into a series of strange animals"
transofrmation form a "little bureaucrat" and gets transformed.
"a moving mask" - no masks get transformed.
He makes strange - £


alternatives ??? is a broadly unpopular solution ignored by plants and single-cell
organisms, though both of these are capable of expressing behaviors in response to
their environment. Bacteria move toward or away from substances and behave
socially with other bacteria to improve their situation and prospects for preserving
their genes, sometimes at the cost of self-sacri¯cex [Rankin et al., 2010]. Plants are
capable of responding not only to light and nutrients but also to pheromones of other
(e.g., host) species of plants, and to direct their growth accordingly [Trewavas, 2005].

Based on pareidolia - catenary.

Calvino “fantasy is a place where it rains”

Lorenz’ and Tinbergen’s innate releasing mechanisms  - Balkenius 1994.

Feels that ideas of play and games is actually quite removed from the idea of the videogame.

"the creation of our fantasy worlds... play a vital role in a successful picture" - they spent as much time.

Floridi - 'engineering the world' - you must provide a dumb gadget with a sympathetic surrounding environment. The world is becoming that environment, and do not need to put a big box around it - same with the creature?


Therapy animals - non-aggressive, predictable behaviour (like a god), curious, appealing, entertaining, non-judgemental. They are “better than medicine” Therapy animals for each other, unconditional love. 

Virtual Pet Companions by GeriJoy
“Gerijoy Companion, a virtual pet for seniors” touch them through a tablet device, talk to them

“Noticing breathing” is important
Lots of AAT relies on the tactility of animals - we do not have this - how can we replicate it?
The creature cannot be a replacement for more tactile AAT, nor would I ever suggest it.
This is the issue with all characters - we need to get to know them quickly.


“Attribtuing books to mythical doctor was part of the grimoire tradition”

Nonsense words (agla, aglai) etc. - close to bouba and kiki.
“For many christians, as well as jews, Hebrew words were in themselves thought magical”
‘Abrahadabra’
Really in games, when we talk about interacting with a story, we are really talking about interacting with a world.


"Even in reading the most technical scientific book or the most abstract book of philosophy, one can come across a phrase that unexpectedly sitimulates the visual imagination"

They had to actually warn people in the UNIX handbook that they are not blasphemous. 

Mechanomorphism towards animals, or anthropomorphism (Karlsson) - anthropomorphism is better 
“Critical anthropomorphism” - useful when creature’s behaviour is understood in relation to us - I.e. they are irrituable because they are interacrting with us.
Not just describing animals or places well - an interior use, are they of use to us?
Mechanising descriptions CAN be useful, as can anthropomorphising descriptions, in adding to our range of description of aspects of animals. Need to just be “critical morphisms”


Why we were addicted to tamagotchis - past tense
“[x]and [x] created a needier world”
“My little pony plus the risk of imminent death”
“Like a needy lover, we confused our tamagotchi’s digital clinginess for devotion” - paracosm.
Tama-hackers - working out the algorithms.”
“Unwillingess to shield users from life’s most difficult reality”
Aki maita - hectic lifestyle - small apartment - tamagotchi born out of loneliness.
Reflecting shinto values. 

Tom Bissell calls Telltale Games “the shimmeriing of something really cool.”

“Proteus is a game about being an island instead of a game about being on one” Like mountain. It’s a game about empathy. Add it to the empathy list! He thinks you aren’t moving a camera, but moving the island past a static camera. - like when the train next to you begins moving and you aren’;t sure if it’s your train moving or not. Char as enviro


Roger Giner-Sorolla - Crimes against mimesis - anything that breaks the illusion of the world you have entered.

Beasts of burden, they had to work for man. Beasts of demand, they are summoned to respond to the interrogation of science.*2 Beasts of consumption, they have become the meat of industry. Beasts of somatization, they are now made to speak the "psy" language, to answer for their psychic life and the misdeeds of their unconscious.


Cats do have personalities, but are they only to do with breed or genetic assoications such as eye color etc? (Wilhelmy, Serpel et. Al 2016)
Call them “behaviour pathologies” - but are they not just ‘traits’?
But then that is breeding into a particular culture - would be interesting to see a similar study for moggies.
Not actually any evidence that independent of breed behaviour is affected by appearance. 
Colour affects personality traits (Delgado) but colour is remarkably related to breed. COmes from owner assoications (non-experts) through observation (and cultural bias?)
We found that red cats had increased prey interest independent
of breed, as evaluated by the Fe-BARQ. This finding may make sense
in the context that red cats represent a larger percentage of the
population in rural environments (Pontier et al., 1997) where feral
or semiferal cats still subsist on small prey (MacDonald et al., 2000).
Context and domain is important, then.
Mammals with reduced retinal pigment have been shown
to develop correspondingly increased cross retinal projections
(Kaas, 2005), suggesting that abnormal vision in cats with
decreased pigmentation (e.g., Siamese) could result in increased
baseline anxiet

This example shows that we call behaviour
intelligence only when we see how that behaviour is
adaptive for the animal. This is precisely the idea that
“intelligence is in the eyes of the observer” (Brooks
1991). We should not, however, be fooled to believe
that intelligence is only in our eyes. If we change the
environment of the animal in such a way that its
initial behaviour is no longer adaptive, we can make
an interesting observation. If the animal persists in
its original behaviour, we no longer consider it
intelligent, but if it, on the other hand, changes its
behaviour to adapt it to the new circumstances, we
will still think of it as intelligent in some sense.
This, I think, makes intelligence equivalent to the
capacity of learning.


Perhaps what we believe to be intelligence

Animal behaviour book detail the physiological control of systems in animals. Well understood, biologically. Does not necessarily detract from 
“Animal behaviour is controlled by the nervous system… these operate on the same principles throughout the animal kingdom”. Receptors - “energy transducers”
“Effectors” - muscles and glands.
“A basic plan common to all”
I’m not simulating hormones.
We use the autocosmics/metaphor of animals to apply to robots.
“Motivational state” of animal. -> similar to planning mechanisms. More modern than the concept of individual ‘drives’. 
Innate defence reactions that are essentially relfex in nature but modifiable through learning.
An argument about whether we have declarative (I.e. autocosmic) thinking, or simple following of rules (procedural) in animals that plan ahead and arrive at insights.
Ethologists combine mechanistic and evolutionary approaches to understanding behaiour.
Uexkull, tinbergen - sign stimulus -> innate releasing mechanism,
Autocosmics in animals - imprinting, sign stimuli etc.
Lorenz discovered imprinting

Some autocosmic behavioru no longer has an attachment to the autocosmics - is a form of ‘ritualization’
“Dangers and virtues in using ourselves as models of what animals might feel (Dawkins, 1980)
Whether animals and humans share a type of mental life - “controversial”

Chomsky - language requires mental organisation, not just more intelligence.
Tool-use: controversial as to whether this is intelligence, or requires mental representation.
“The question of consciousness in animals is fraught with difficulties.
Emotions and inner state can be hypothesised, but no yet-saisfying way to test it, in the animal behaviour book’s view.

The creature has an internal model, but also relies on you anthropomorphising it.
“Naive” to label animal emotions in human term - the autocosmic corruption of science. Useful in the creation of characters.


The Dodo - a website "for animal people": filled with stories of wounded and hurt animals that tug at our heartstrings. A result on anthropomorphisation?

"people care about animal welfare more than ever before."
"unique ability of animals to tap into a wide range of human emotions."
"we're committed to looking at the world through animals' eyes" - really?
Certainly attempting not to anthropomorphise.


"to my faithful partner" - guards of honour for dogs. I cried reading this?
"you took your job seriously"

In MTV rating - “ Killing colossi is cool, but it'd be slow and boring if you were forced to hoof it on your own two feet.” - Again, environment is made for Wander. Its all in the name, as well.


Tinbergen defines behaviour as “the total movement made by the animal”
TInbergen related to BBAI
Behaviour relates both to external factors and internal “spontaneous” stimuli.
They had quite a mechanistic view of nature
A reservoir of energy fills up and then releases 
Tinbergen’s hierarchical model adds blocks to this - energy moving along through nerve centres in the brain until it reaches a block. These are removed spontaneously.
An interesting way to frame it - needs to do something are removed.
Internal need (to land on flowers) needs external stimuli to remove “blocks” to the behaviour - internal need is goal, blocks are if statements?
“It isn’t the figure of a cat… an allegory for all the cats on earth, the felines that traverse our myths and religions”

Supernormal stimulus seems to support umwelt - if something fake has a stronger characteristic than the real thing, the fake thing will be preferred in execution of the behaviour. Doesnt matter that the rest of it is fake - the rest is believed.

“Only the creator of nature could break the rules”, though. 
Devil is within natural limits
“Deception too could be the product of unaided nature” rather than of demonic intrusion.
“Not supernatural” (p168 - but instead firmly natural. But ordinary people did not belive this. Devil was not a figure beyond nature.
The “powerlessness” of witches.

Seed words, mathematical formulae used for tables.Crafting tables through algorithms,
They have a lot of mathematical value, apart from their diabolical narratives which add to their mystique. 
Quick link of grimoires to metafictional novels (e.g. Dorst and Abrams’ ‘S’, House of Leaves etc.) The consensus has changed, but the autocosmics have no
Link between nature and mathematics - pattern-matching in the grimoires.
SOyga - about combining letters and numbers in this way.
- The lunar manisons, gebnealogies of angels, lists of conjunctions.


Heideger - “no wild animals roams at random over the country.”
Fixed rhythms of natural life - “forces they cannot control” (heideger)
Heidegger/Merleau-Ponty
The meaning of an emotion is not dependent upon a representation in the mind of the emoter (which depends upon 370 M. P. Spackman, D. Miller 123 another representation, etc.), but it grows, exists, develops with and as a part of the emotion.
Brooks’ approach is not Heideggerian but is similar - robots that are embodied in themselves. 

Horoscopes - reading autocosmic data from a complex system of numbers which has internal logic. Gaming is like horoscope. It is easy to forget that people beleived enough for there to be scientists, who again believed themselves (evidence), who amde goodl ivings and lives out of this. What they believed is not entirely discountable.Formulas in magic - the link back to mathematics.

Autocosmics is about pattern - astronomy based in astrology, chemistry in alchemy. Science’s strength, I think, will be in courting th human autocosmic with facts. 
he third kind of Magick containeth the whole Philosophy of Nature; (magic as science) (arbatel)Layers of causation in the natural world that magicians and devils can interfere with. 
Autocosmics, therefore, is against Derrida’s position; I am using it here, for ill or well. A moral difficulty on my part.
Autocosmics is the source of the categorization that allows violence against the creature.

is only an amalgamation of such fixed behaviours.
“the tick will bite everything that has a
temperature of +37 °C and smells of butyric acid”

Not just the senses but internal cognitive factors as well - the tick is interpreting and extrapolating the world? No, not necessarily. Well, still assuming! Only know sthe temperature, not the nature of what they see.


Read Sebeok as well on Umwelt - “self-centered world”. This is a related concept to the “self worlds” of autocosmics.


The “autobiographical animal” - human as animal who thinks about themselves.

Moving away from ubicomp is part of this - take the character out of the larger computation paradigm - coming to a place. Char as environment. Also in chapter ‘4. Special time with it. The magic circle vs. Ubicomp. Keep boundaries. Don’t make everythings seamless. Make them confront it as a partial artwork, on its own. Why?


---Last Seed, 17th, 4E 201---
A domestic character - people want touches of normalcy - the laundry mod.

Opie - childhood superstitions “Mostly involve happenings out-of-doors”


---Last Seed, 18th, 4E 201---
Having just sound effects is great; how often d oyou look up to follow birdcall and cannot see the wildlife? You assume it is hidden, buzzing, all aroundyou - but it is not.

“Uringating through wedding rings to avoud impotency.”

Mathmaticians - James Reed working on Voynich and Soyga.

Named her stravaig

“Any lingering and mysterious malady was liable… to be blamed upon witchcraft.”

Relating to reader-response theory in terms of the text as a guide to creating meaning.


"admittedly more of a problem in getting people to care about an old shoe or a garbage can."


4 6 3 8 A B K 2 4 A L G M O R 3 Y X 24 89 R P S T O V A - lists of letters that Crowley says that you shall not understand.

Retire thou then unto a secret place, where no one may be able to see thee or to
hinder thee, before the completion of the experiment, whether thou shouldest wish to
work by day or by night. 

Using in-game journal mod to take notes. 
The weather changing, trees moving
Little ruins or vignettes

Kendall Walton opposes him. A pretend theorist - we are not literally afraid of these things, we are in fact 'pretending'. It is common sense that we are not really fearing these things. They are 'quasi-emotions' - similar, but not the same. (how we react to mountains in print vs. on them (reference in chapter 3) 

Different ‘environments’ on my Scotland trip - world, scotland, cairngorms, spey valley, inshriach, hollow, bothy, stove - characters within characters, environments within environments.
All environments are self-determined. What makes a landscape individual? Being easily distinguishable, like a mountain or a rock dormation. Anything distinct from that which surrounds it can be a character. The shadowy grove. The fallen tree. All environments are part of other environment. 
Cities have character


I saw plants covered in tiny ells
If you really look, the birch are shedding their leaves so quickly, ticking a weird clock on the roof.
To relate to it as humans, we must speed it up, focus, divide; we can do this in games.
Rubbing trees like tghe taught, slightly warm, downy legs of creatures o adults.
The woodpecker’s song is on a human timescale - not too irregular, not regular enough to be mechanical.
Learning the train timetables by nature as they go through the valley.

I got very weird and superstitious about leaving any of my possessions (the pen Ilost in the gorge) out on the mountainside - leaving a piece of myself vulnerable)



A knot is an algorithm “…probably the earliest spells” H is for hawk.

Watts is primarily focussed on interdependence as a measure of closeness; how can actions, contexts and objects increase feelings of closeness? While in Watts’ case this is focussed on human-human closeness facilitated by machines, I am more interested in closeness between an agent (who perhaps, for all intents for purposes, is related to in a similar way as a human being ‘inside the machine’ when on-screen) and the human interactor. It is centred around four tenets: Closeness, Empathy, Emotional Awareness, Intimacy. 


"words as a perpetual pursuit of things, as a perpetual adjustment to their infinite variety"

Object Out Of Context - chainsaw on the table - puzzles taking precedence over the fiction. “Screaming red flags”


“Fortune-telling manuals” used most often - the creature is a fortune-telling manual.
“Theatrical flourish helped to present an air of the unusual”


Instruction manuals come with warnings/admonitions with special glyphs - warnings both for the user and for the appliance.
Diagrams/maps of the territory of the appliance.
Recipes for success in using it!
Rituals for safety very often - tell you to make sure it is plugged in (a legal thing, a ritualistic behaviour).
Translating messages from the machine.
How to make the machine happy.
If it has encountered a problem (not what the problem actually is).
Manuals are part of the design of things from the start, while holy books try to reverse engineer things already created - that’s what the Holy manual does here.
When to shake the chips in the fryer - doing its rituals to get what you want.
Tiny, contextual messages - must have the book to understand them.
Program instructions for human! Follow steps to the letter. But they don’t, therefore accidents happen.
“CAN BE AFFECTED  by electrical storms” - portentous, 
Entering codes that the computer understands but which you do not.
“Some experimenting” may be required sometimes - go off piste WITHIN the parameters.
Failsafes - you cannot clean both sides automatically, must be done manually.
Central CODE function on the fryer to access all functions occultly.
Sometimes won’t display things, but they will be happening - they reassure you of this, but we need that to happen without reassurance in characters!
Warnings over emissions in car 
“Congratulations on acquiring your new Lincoln”
Remember to pass on the Owner’s Guide when reselling the vehicle. It
is an integral part of the vehicle.
Symbols for hilighting specific sorts of text (tree, exclamation mark etc.)
Symbols relate to what is wrong -converting into human semiotics.
Dashboard cluster is like a face, warning you of problems - not divining, told directly. 
You can even see all the unlit warning signs in the sunshine, the possibility space of the mechanism.
-Things that are dangerous it warns you about, mainly, otherwise you are in a ‘normal operation’.
Arrows show you motions to undertake alongside verbs in the text.
Your Lincoln Navigation System has a large range of features, yet is easy
to use
‘Your’ - it belongs to you.
Things that you may say to the system.
Does not tell you everything about the inner workings of the thing - just the performative ‘user’ bit.
“Courtesy” lamps - the manufacturers deemed it useful if not necessary.
These things you see? They are normal - your initial impression is wrong (condensation in headlights, treatment of animals in zoos).
Warnings before anything else in sections.
On hot days, the temperature in the trunk or vehicle interior can
rise very quickly. Exposure of people or animals to these high
temperatures for even a short time can cause death or serious
heat-related injuries, including brain damage. Small children are
particularly at risk.
Resetting requires what appear to be obsessive actions! Doing things 8 times in a row etc. (I suppose to stop accidental usage) - ritual must be deliberate, and so must be strange.
Capitals and bold to draw attention to potential danger/mistakes.
The mechanisms in the car immediately let you know the culture surrounding the car - seatbelts etc.	
“Tongue” of a seatbelt
Mysterious residue from airbags - like ectoplasm, must be explained…
Unpredictable, animist components in the car that must be treated properly.
Precise instructions on what to do, what NOT to do,
Everybody does some of these, nobody does all of them - a platonic acolyte.
The appliance is your servant, but is unpredictable - YOU must take some responsibility for it. 	
Checking engine oil - abstract barometer
Some instances slip outside the realm of the manual and into terror, autocosmic suggestion - “immediately call a physician” and that’s it.
As videogames are partially tools (Bogost) can talk about car manuals and the like as well.
Design often shows elements from the story in other configurations (spikes in the prince of persia manual, both arabic decoration and precursor of your most feared enemy. This is why games such as these are so good - they focus on the real characters of those systems, of those times and eras.
Cpatures a very specific context, charaacter and system.

Guidebooks
------------

Birds, flowers, trees, night sky etc.
Often a political angle - save the environments in which these things can be found.
Maybe it is isn't actually about the individual birds always, but about the habitats as well.
Birds as characters, as demons you have to summon - be quiet, in special areas, where special clothes etc.
Their different sigils, their different colours, their habitats and times.
Categorised by habits, voice, region, breeding, 
The difference between seeing their pictures in books and seeing them in the wild.
Its own language
Not really now for use: more just for enjoyment.
Observation rather than use - de waal's 'farmer' or 'hunter-gatherer' approach.
"books on birds inspired me in my formative years, and I treasured the one that held the key to understanding what I saw around me"
Makes it clear that it is not just about indentification - that that is a key for understandint the birds in more detail.
Topography - the biology of a bird - like an environment!
'Getting to know' a place is a common phrase.
"Britain's character has been shaped by its geographical position as an island".
Often 'character' does refer to human use, but by no means always. And I am not against human intervention. Though wild landscapes have as much character as not wild ones, even if it is in opoosition.
Often start with an overview of the place to be gone into.
Looking into climate - Wainwright;s walking routes, a way to get to know a landscape the best.
Maps are like a face, the place like the mind. The maps show the place in place. A portrait.
Your trip as a whole vs. day-bty-day - the little moments that make up a relationship with someone.
 Steiner (2004:
11), for example, has argued that tragedy denies the anthropic principle, as
I have called it: tragedy "is a performative statement of man's unhoused-
ness in the world {apolis), of an elemental, non-negotiable enmity between
being and existence," that is, between an intelligible human life compared
with mere survival. Even here, though, Steiner's language incorporates an
anthropic term, enmity, suggesting that even as the environment conspires
to destroy us, we still, inescapably, persist in reading the world in terms of
our personal narratives.#

CONSTELLATION OF POSITIVEEMOTIONS SURROUNDING INTERPERSONAL RELATIONSHIPS - ARE ENJOYABLE - BUT SOCIAL IS NOT THE ONLY POINT OF CHARACTER, ALSO INTROSPECTION

Most interactive widgets dump the user in a sandbox and say "figure it out for yourself". Those are not explanations. To me, an essential aspect of the "explorable explanation" concept is that the author holds up his end of the conversation. The author must guide the reader, and provide a structure for the learning experience. Only then can the reader respond, by asking and answering the questions that the author provokes.

Humans often have emotional attachment to geographical locations because they have previously felt
emotions at those locations. This approach takes advantage of this knowledge and enables
a virtual character to find a path through an environment that is as emotionally pleasant
as possible.

The virtual friend needs to have its own life, away from the player - does this also happen in literature - 'book time' and 'computer time' - like an environment

She critiques the approach of reducing a computer to its smallest processes, because we could do this with anything. 
Therefore this idea of the atomic and the gestalt really applies to environments; environments become a gestalt, from the atomic, through perception.
Animal behaviour book - animals as systems, or components, in their environment, and systems themselves. Systems within systems. Lots of gross experiment diagrams; the morality of systematising animals.
Physiological stability (homeostasis) - originated in Claude Bernard’s idea of ‘internal envrionment’
Either conformers or regulators - regulators have greater control over internal environment. 
Thermoregulation etc.

Elizabeth talk - The believabilit of character tied to animation, not social believability-  tied into the technology, the system, very closely.
The diversity of emotion in stance, and breaking "idle stillness"


"We also need to understand how it will react to change... this is why games progress over time".
Puzzles not the problem - "games are puzzles to solve, just like everything else we encounter in life". Books are puzzles to solve.
