	One may speak of a character's reality in either practical or metaphysical terms. The metaphysical positions are complex, touching on the concept of "fictional entities" or "ficta", entity relations and many literary discourses such as fictional realism, Meinongianism and intimidatingly, neo-Meinongianism, both orthodox and non-orthodox. To some degree, all of these discourses concern what has been called the "non-existence datum" (Kroon and Voltolini, 2011); whether characters are "fully-fledged, metaphysically respectable entities" (Hepola, 2014), with a 'reality' of their own, perhaps existing in possible worlds (Ryan, 2013) or are rather "ontological illusions" (Thomasson, 1999), "higher-level dependent entities" (Kroon and Voltolini, 2011) contingent upon conversational and formal conventions. Often these positions are characterised as realist and irrealist (Felski, 2011), realist and anti-realist (Friend, 2007), or Platonic and Constructivist (Kroon and Voltolini, 2011). This is a debate which is infamously complex, ever-changing and one in which "both sides of the debate face difficulties" (Friend, 2007); a debate that, blessedly, lies outside the purview of this thesis, which is for all intents and purposes a practical one, concerning how to create better characters. While we will return to some of these debates where they intersect with how we perceive character, or rather receive them, in later sections (in which the position I take is somewhere between the irrealist or cognitivist position described by Hepola (2014) and the creationist position of Voltolini (2006) and others) they are not relevant to providing an initial, working definition of where the boundaries of a fictional character lies within its fiction.


 "emotional truth... at a biochemical level" (Norman, 2015), relating to characters in many of the same ways that we relate to real people (Sklar, 2009).


Imagining is an act of authorship, of creation – non-authored characters as well.

Even before Anne's time, this paradox was evident in popular belief; Groeneveld's fascinating account of a "rood puppet" of Christ installed in a medieval Kentish monastery focuses on the object's dual role as irreverent, aesthetic object and functional religious icon, a "theatrical miracle" (Groeneveld, 2007). Returning to the cunning folk, Owen Davies in his history of English popular magic consistently points out that such individuals were not universally 'believed', without scepticism, detachment or some distance; they existed in a precarious position (Davies, 2007), treated with “genuine respect moderated by doses of cynicism” (Davies, 2007), and the examples of times when they were not believed, or were considered fraudulent, are almost as numerous as accounts of abject credulity. Dyer's work on the possession of a young girl in Bristol in the 1700s speaks of the “blessed relief” when a cunning-person performs a perfunctory ritual on the girl to rid her of the spirit; a spirit whose actual presence had been doubted by everyone, including the girl and her parents, but the social pressure of whose characterisation and narratives were beginning to wear. 


Deleuze and Guattari - thinking par le milleu - we think embedded in our environment

 Some scholars even use the nature and number of these gaps as an (albeit crude) measure of a work's 'artfulness' or 'literariness'. A work which invites the reader "to extend beyond habitual dispositions", and engage in more advanced, indistinct processes of meaning-making allied to their most basic evolved compulsions, often over multiple repeated experiences with the same artwork, is a work that fulfills the definition of the literary (Miall and Kuiken, 1994, Dixon et al, 2008). 


At first, it seems self-evident. The term is one so naturalised in our culture that many might believe that it does not need a formal extrapolation; indeed, the narratologist Fotis Jannidis sees literary criticism as historically neglecting the concept "in favour of more difficult topics" (2013).

	Perhaps the most important ambiguity evident in the definitions above concerns a character's objectivity, or rather their coherence itself. Put simply, is a character merely a collection of atomic representations, a construction of signs indivisible from the artwork that contains it, or can they more properly be considered as individual elements, even as entities in and of themselves,  worthy of individual study?

);, "sum of all binary oppositions to the other characters in a text which, together, constitute a paradigm." (Jannidis, 2013).  


As they point out, placing emphasis on "autonomous itnentional agents and their interactions" removes the problems of stories that seem to have no narrative at all. 

In general, the consensus has moved from a historical mechanomorphism, the simplistic understanding of the mind (and the imagination) as a distinct, "mechanist" (Asma, 2017) object in and of itself which can be assayed and understood systematically (Shapiro, 2008), to a more multivalent approach of "qualitative organicism" (Emmeche, 2004), which sees such processes as the emergent phenomena of many different elements of the human experience, of which the mind (or brain), is only one. To see the act of imagining as purely 'information processing' is, in the words of Asma, "arid" (2017) –



