"Storytelling 
is an important performance practice to understand, as the spoken word is a staple 
of interaction, whether human-to-human or, increasingly, human-computer." 
"The significance, however, is that this text belongs to neither the virtual nor the actual world but to the cybernetic ebb and flow between the player’s body, the videogame hardware, and audiovisual and haptic representation. "
"Such analysis demands the critic holds onto various worlds and bodies and the tensions between them: the player, the
character, actual hardware, virtual worlds."
I am closer to Grotowski's definition - a rite of passage for a single person, rather than a performance - though of course in Anne's day, a ritual WAS a performance! It had to be. She would irk at this (the Truth is not performed) but it is true. She has just internalised it.
Moving back and forth between lived, bodily experience of our ritualistic actions, and a semiotic, detached awareness of their meanings. This oscillation takes place in knole. HOWEVER "Ritual action, with its intrinsic, socially construed meanings, may be an
exception because it provides an immediate means of signification during the actual living experience"

Just like the challenges of travel, games coerce players through a punishment and reward system, to act and behave in different ways in order to reach their goal." - for 3.4, around ritual/coercion of user.

Huizinga, in his anthropological study of play, brings in this idea of severity, or rather seriousness. He states that the modern belief that play is a frivolous, superfluous activity is misguided and stagnant; that play has always at its heart a meaning, and that meaning is often extremely serious (which is not the same as grave, unhumoured or boring). This meaning has, he admits, been obfuscated by the desacralisation of play as we moved away from primitive religion. 

adjacent rather than overlaid real and virtual spaces" Koleva et al 2000
Palmer sees it, then, as instructions to construct mental functioning - knowing the thoughts of others.
The most valuable of cookbooks and related culinary texts also reveal what we might call complete food ideologies.

"experience
design can be seen as an upstart within the parent fi elds of HCI and interaction
design,"
"According to Paul, this classic triad of art involvement is blurred as (1) “Rather than being the sole ‘creator’ of a work of art, the artist often plays the role of a mediator or facilitator for audiences’ interaction with and contribution to the artwork,” (2) the “public or audience becomes a participant in the work, reassembling the textual, visual, and aural components of the project,” and (3) “artwork is often transformed into an open structure in process that relies on a constant flux of information and engages the viewer/participant in the way a performance might do” [31]"

“Another subset of manual types relevant to book epitexts are manuals that are not just aides to help the player with the game, but are essential in order to reach the game’s completion.”##]"not just a consequence of being surrounded by a spatial setting but of being engaged in another place"

 "It is just that most of us in the West no  longer need magic in our lives. Who needs to conjure up spirits to find buried treasure when you can use a metal detector?" - anne precludes modern conveniences. 
" This temporary identification has consequences for one’s own worldview: our atheist respondents confess that role-playing encourages, rein orces or strengthens their empathy for the religious Other."

"the technology involved is carefully designed to explore the felt experience of displaying one’s interaction with that
technology for others"
 - "The dualism of friend or foe, the wish for an 
interpreter to tell us what to do, and the desire for manageable views of time all make the digital 
algorithm of gaming apocalypses an alluring model for viewing real-life experiences too"
The rituals of gaming progression - she says Chizra temple is"ill-suited for worship", but perfect for player's progress - a gamified ritual space. THe ritual as wmake-up for an underlying mechanic.
Champion suggests in the above paper taking away the time pressures of enviros a bit, to let people concentrate on them more. Also, his idea of ‘memento maps’ - how to personalise and map the landscape?
Playing the other - a reference for lots of religion in games
Games become a way to suspend religious worldviews and take on other views - the fluidity of religious beliefs, on an autocosmic spectrum between 'real' and 'not real', comp-art as a medium that provokes questioning and adoption of other religious belief structures even if consciously modal.
Some see games' reliious representations as simplistic or othering (references in this article) - Aupers, 2012; Dyer-Witheford and de Peuter, 2009; Kline et al., 2003
" The renewed relevance of religion prompted sociologists (Gorski, 2012), art historians (King, 2005), literary scholars (Mohamed, 2011) and political theorists (McLennan, 2010), among others, to conceptualize the current period as ‘post-secular’ (Habermas, 2006, 2008)." - more about fascination with religion, for these guys, rather than a mixing of science and spirituality. More political, for them (Habermas) than anything else.

So functional - much more mysterious for those who have only heard of them…“Strange words” or “strange symbols” feature a lot in testimonies - hints of books, fleeting glimpses, like rare animals. Lack of understanding sends autocosms wild. 

 Super Mario Bros. There’s a bit of a dark past hidden in Super Mario Bros.’ booklet. The story, as described in the manual’s first few pages, involves the Koopa tribe turning the Mushroom Kingdom’s residents into bricks, stones, and “field horsehair plants” (commonly considered the game’s Fire Flower power-up). This would mean that Mario is actually shattering bricks with human souls when he grabs coins and ingesting people to throw fireballs. The sordid implications were eventually ret-conned, but the original manual stands as a sort of morbid tome to the Mushroom Kingdom’s sordid past.
 Though she would never admit it, plugs into a long traditional of performative, narrative, interpersonal relationships with space – ties between character development, computational design and performance studies. .
 - "In all cases, though, experience design can be understood as performative in one or more uses of the term, especially considering the potential for a lone user to be the spectator of her own experience (Dalsgaard and Hansen 2008 )."

Talks about Laurel trying to create sacred spaces - in her Placeholder project, recreate a sacred space. Am I trying to do this?

“The Grand Pentacle or Circle of Solomon will answer for the above and following Conjurations, which can be said on all days and at all hours. If it be desired to speak only with one spirit, one only need be named, at the choice of the reader.” -> very precise instructions (from Honorius) -

"There could be progression, framed or choreographed against a landscape that thematically  relates to the event (such as the deliberately meandering path that leads up to the  Acropolis complex of Athens).

“There were no manuals to instruct the initiate on associated beliefs and practices.”
"VEs engage the body as kinaesthetic input via the specialised interface devices that not only permit but require bodily actions to be performed sensorially, kinaestheti-cally, proprioceptively"

"Eliade mentions “privileged places” like the place of birth, and the place of one’s fi rst love, that form “holy places” in one’s “private universe” (1987,
24)."
Performing in (virtual) spaces - 2007, so getting a bit old - A phenomenological approach, here, to digital art (and mixed reality in particular). The importance of the body,. For 3.4. Anne pursuing the virtual, the posthuman, without realising it - being clean, high up, as a bird.

    •   "Grimoires exist because of the desire to create a physical record of magical 
    • knowledge, reXecting concerns regarding the uncontrollable and corruptible nature of the oral transmission of valuable secret or sacred information."
“text and image may be used in print form to influence reception of a game” 
“Themes found in cookbooks are timeless… entangled in daily life”

      
    • - seeing themselves AS Anne, what the rituals would look like, Anne viewable in this. Grimoires often tell you to be alone.

 “More than a dead-end paratext” - “ the increased story-telling potential of the actual game” - but we should go back to that, because the storytelling potential is not necessarily being recognised!"Pokedex - another form of paratext alongisde - encyclopedic - categorising progress and providing context.“Knowledge in world” - Norman 
"it is relatively rare for a videogame to represent the text of a book in full, but it is much more frequent for a representation of that book to be used as a symbol of authority.” 

Manauls don't reveal everything, just the basics, to get started.Capitalised letters for ontological importance, with strange names. 

About interacting with a character like it is an environment (unlike most AI architectures). Not a strict econarratological approach, away from the human/anthropomorphised character, like Cheng/Caracciolo approach.

 -  .   BIRKE AND CHRIST"They  do not revolutionize reading and viewing habits in an instant but are part of a long  process of development that is in close dialogue with the printed book as the longterm  cultural paradigm." - it is a longstanding autocosmic arrangement - a static companion to a system.
 But the dusty relic that is a game manual was an important part of the gaming experience for nearly a decade, and it is a shame to see it fall into obscurity. 
Explaining all of the icons, unlike a grimoire - a grimoire uses the symbols as exclusionary, paracosmic symbols, that only certain people can learn - in the game manual, they are explained so that in the game they do not need to do it 

       Common in environment-heavy books (systemic books like fantasy) - "Wolf shows how each of these three elements are realised in worldbuilding through para-textual elements which exist outside of the narrative (usually found, as Ursula K. Le Guin characterised them in her world-building work Always Coming Home as “the back of the book”). For the space in which things exist there are maps of the world. For the duration or space of time in a world there are descriptive timelines and chronologies. For characters there are genealogies which give a given character a rootedness; a history and pedigree. 
They have become more characterful, more narrative, more descriptive as time has gone on. Fulfilled a role which they did not need to before. Bits of context and history about the dishes are now de rigeur - Waldorf Salad. 
   Borsuk and bouse (2016) as well.  It is a story, which you are expected to believe will happen. In a way, it doesn’t matter if people actually perform the ritual or not…
 Chris Crawford - “ Computers have many limitations, and some of these can be overcome with a good manual.
 Escape To Na Pali is a guidebook, in a way. A way to interpret a place - both metaleptically and as an experienced place. But also a literal guide, a retelling of the way through the game. 

 Not about a character interpenetrated with environment, like boss characters, or an environment that bears the memories/imprints of a character/the characters that lived within it. Characterisation not necessarily ‘spread out’ across the environment - just ‘normal’ comp. characters in another shape.
 A guidebook to mediating relationships, a precise and localised landscape - the summoning circles etc. It will tell you what to pack, what to wear, the customs of the inhabitants etc. Very funcitonal ,tells you precisely what to do; transcends its own mysticism What vaccinations you need, currency, the costs of things. 
Black & White Manual - “people who need a god always get one”.

"Performance is deeply rooted in the tropes and rhythms of everyday life , particularly those genres of performance that eschew
stages and greasepaint in favour of a more immediate connection with audience”
Links riddles, gods testing us in imaginary realms to games and "systemic challenges" in interactive art."The power to incant through language has always been a central element of enchantment. Covino (1994) reminds us that the words “spelling” and “grammar” have their origins in sorcery and offer a reflection of the capacity of one skilled with words to cast “spells”.
" these are works that explore social, political, and experiential boundaries of digital interfaces."
Food speaks to values - not just fuel. Philosophical systems. Function as secrets that are revealed.
"miscellany" containing "magical recipes, mostly for healing" - Cadwaladr Davies' book.  

Flying Corp - representing everything possible. The planes are the characters, and manipulation of them crosses the ocial/spatial/systemic manipulation divide. Especially because they are so complex.

 A modern grimoire. "our guidebooks were novels" (Tyler-Jones) - read it as you were walking around the site - nobody did that, we thought they would do that.

 Requires length planning, expensive ingreedients - meant to be exclusive, makes it seem more impressive, deters sceptics because of the high cost of testing theories. 

"PED encourages thinking in terms of increasing or decreasing both the degree of ‘performance’ and the complexity of the experience design"

“Made appetisingly few references to the Necronomicon, and so the exact nature of its contents is never clear to the reader.”

Grand Grimoire - dated 1500s but probably 19th century - Cunning men “used manuals of fortune-telling and/or astrology, and handwritten collections of herbal recipes and magical formulae.”
– fantasy often provides us with a host of recipes, sometimes even producing paratexts – the lord of the rings cookbook, a feast of ice and fire, narnia cookbook, the Redwall series – the world-building required. use of non-computational techniquyes - chapbooks ABOUT demons -
a menu actually is poetry. It's short verse, there's a physical structure to how it looks and it's using words with a multiplicity of meaning a lot of times. I've thought about turning how I think about a recipe like chicken stock into a poem which will tell you how I think about chicken stock. And then you can go take a cookbook recipe — every cookbook has a recipe for chicken stock. But with a poem you walk into a thought process. You know, what am I looking for? What is the value of chicken stock? And so I think to be a good cook above all else you need to be thoughtful, you need to care. And so how do you make a picture of thoughtfulness? [Laughs].
The same relationship as between a nature book and nature.
Each disarmamaent is a separate puzzle. Navigating the occult world of offal. The roast is a multi-page affair with tables, preparations the night before etc. Lots of similarities to the grimoire. Tied to the land, and often to folklore.

    •  All of them concerned with navigating systems of function and meaning – concerned with a subset of the world, and how to navigate it and propiate it for your food. Especially in case of diets, a lot of it is superstition, and yet people follow it anyway.
    • 
    • 
    • Arcana Mundi is all about the ancient texts upon which magical practices were based. “Magical literature”