The idea that 'anything can be art' is slightly different (arising from 20th century surrealism, modernism etc.) - this is commenting on nature of art itself, and was the preserve of more conceptual art (i.e. less mimetic). I am looking at how the human imagination both processes art and everyday life (especially narratively) in similar ways. Not interested in 'everything being art', but instead how to use non-art to inform art.
David Herman (2002) see narrative as a "flexible cognitive frame" rather than tied to a form.

"clearly defined, three-dimensional… forms, vivid with colour and animated with movement and sound" by those alleging to have come into contact with them, unlike later descriptions of ghosts with their "smoky, undefined form[s]"
Ecocritical writing as early as Gilgamesh - a direct line to religious tales.


"As virtual reconstruction models are mostly partial (Dave, 2008,
p. 49); allowing users with diverse backgrounds with social and ethnic identity to
contribute to the narrative level, a simultaneously pluralistic and multiple perspectives
of history can be achieved. Thus, a more comprehensive and inclusive scenario, akin to
the concept of re-construction by Uzzell (1989) seems achievable" - like reader response, the role of the reader in constructing the past.
The power to incant through language has always been a central
element of enchantment. Covino (1994) reminds us that the words
“spelling” and “grammar” have their origins in sorcery and offer a
reflection of the capacity of one skilled with words to cast “spells”
by reading from a “grimoire”. In The Philosophy of Literary Form,
rhetorician Kenneth Burke (1974: 4) reinforces our historical un-
derstanding of the magic of words:

In Gross (2018) - Pinker is for the computational theory of humanity. Must exercise "caution" in using this approach. Embodied Cognition - motor system, perceptual system, "situatedness" in a world,
Rosch, Thompson and Varela, "the emboded mind"
The cognitivist/computationalist divide with embodied and situated cognition.
The embodied cognition perspective is fundamentally autocosmic - it makes our everyday bodies part of the experience.

Computational theory of mind - Jerry Fodor 1975, David Marr 1981, 

not just mechanical reporduction of behaviours, but a form of ‘remembering’ (Kull says). 

As long ago as Gombrich, we saw that there is no 'original genius' - based on long tradition
"True rhetoric, Burke (1969) argued, is magical because it initi-
ates action. Words have the power to send men to their death in
war, abandon their home and families and adopt political struc-
tures that will enslave them."	

Ingold is against the cognitivist position.

Rappaport emphasized that the “operational” environment—governed by the immutable laws of the physical universe—and the “cognized” environment— which he defined as “the sum of the phenomena ordered into meaningful categories by a population”— differed due to the fact that “cognized” environments are less bound by physical laws."

Milkowsku (2013) - t cognition requires “some kind of information processing...the transformation or communication of incoming information”, the acquiring of which involves "exploration and modification of the environment".
tangled web of embodied, extended and situated cognition. 


"These questions which have often intrigued literary theorists, linguists, psychologists and philosophers have lately been the focus of research in cognitive studies whose discoveries have reoriented reading in several important ways. This contribution will discuss reading as a performative practice of mapping since reading figures, conceptualizes and transforms texts into mental models that generate meaningful interaction between reader and text and, in turn, reader and world." Ljungberg

"use intentions" - related to how we use our imaginations to affect the real world (in #1) (Konjun et al)

The map is not the territory, Magritte's treachery of images - perception and imagination always get in our way of real life, Gregory Bateson's impossibility of knowing the world, issues of perception and phenomenology - can't go too deep into this, but the divide has been overstated. DO NOT GET TOO DEEP INTO THIS. Throughout history of philosophy.

Martin talking about Addison, 1714 - arising from the "mind's own operations" as much as art.

Chap 1
------
Jenkins - "arrative comprehension is an active process by which viewers assemble and make hypotheses about likely narrative developments on the basis of information drawn from textual cues and clues." "Read in this light, a story is less a temporal structure than a body of information."

", seeking, and finding stories, and nothing but stories, everywhere. " Eskenlinen (2004) "pannarrativism"
Jenkins - " story as a mental construct, one that may exist in the head of the artist at the beginning of the creative process or the consumer at the end"
as opposed to narration
fabula and syuzhet.
story, fabula - "the end point of a process through which readers encounter, work upon, and work through various textual cues. the end point of a process through which readers encounter, work upon, and work through various textual cues." 



arcana mundi - "oversimplification" to split human history into magic, religion then science.

  Kenderdine posits that cognition itself can be embodied ‘when it is dependent upon features of the physical body – that is, when aspects of the person’s body beyond the brain play a significant causal or physically constitutive role in processing’ (2016)

look at knole approaches - what can be referenced in here?

We must assume that, in mediated scenarios, the author predicts how audiences may respond to a particular textual feature and uses such predictions as the basis for his or her creative choices. Where do these predictions come from and what is their reach?
Wyatt (2018) also talks about this - the author imagining responses, drawing on "folk-psychology knowledge" (from the first one.
This highlights the debate over the death of the author.  the "common sense" approach.

Koenig - talks about imaginative systems - how we parse the world (drawn from videogames research).  "the creation of imaginary systems is an inherent part of human
cognition and experience. "
Narrative is the conclusion - maybe "imaginary systems" is closer to what we mean here.

t this assumption of strategic possibilities is a crucial factor of imaginary systems.
Imaginary systems are not only attempts to envision and understand ‘how things work’, they
also serve as cognitive tools in the attempt to purposefully manipulate these things towards a
desired output, state or behavior
 human cognition is already deeply attuned to the logic of systems, and that the
systems paradigm is already deeply rooted in human experience.


 the “narrative turn” in
social sciences (Bruner 1991; Kreiswirth 1992; 2000; 2005; Brockmeier & Harré
2001; Currie 1998; Richardson 2000)
 “Over the last three decades, the
concept of narrative has successfully travelled from literature into several new
disciplines such as social sciences, law, psychology, theology and health studies” 
, "in the birth of
narrative as a metaphor of life"

 note that the whole theory of narrative
and the abstract notion of narrative itself (vs. theory of the novel, for example)
are based on the comparison of many sorts of narratives. The almost unending
travelling of the concept
A difficult history.

----

Attention - Victor Shklovsky, in the
early essay Art as Device (1917), empha-
sized that the deformation of reality,
‘making strange’ or ‘defamiliarization’
(ostranenie), was central to all art. He
claims that the habitual nature of every-
day experience makes perception stale
and automatic, but
art exists that one may recover the sen-
sation of life; it exists to make one feel
things, to make the stone stony. The
purpose of art is to impart the sensa-
tion of things as they are perceived
and not as they are known. The
technique of art is to make objects
‘unfamiliar’, to make forms difficult,
to increase the difficulty and length
of perception because the process of
Formalism 93
perception is an aesthetic end in itself
and must be prolonged. Art is a way
of experiencing the artfulness of an
object; the object is not important.

Mention this in one, and then make point that non-aesthetic autocosmic can 'make strange' as well.


Leech craft - If the patient truly
believed that such a remedy would provide relief and if that patient had complete faith in the leech
who was tying the madder to the head then the often quoted ‘placebo effect’ could cause this
remedy to be effective. One cannot truly judge the efficacy of Anglo Saxon medicine without
replicating the conditions and the mindset of the times – an impossible task

Tavinor - 
"our emotions connect us to fictional worlds presented in artworks."


Storyworld theory “means both geographic and generally ontological” - donna hancox talk mix digital.

Let us now move to emotions that occur inside the semi-permeable membrane
of the story world. Such worlds are distinctive, each with its own people, its own
history, its own rules and structure. The worlds inside literary membranes are like
our familiar world, but also unlike it. Murders, betrayals, involuntary passions,
losses, impossible conundrums are much more frequent. In the ordinary world
such events are the stuff of psychiatric breakdowns: yet we enter literary worlds
with expectations, often fulfilled, of beauty and of pleasure

Environments affecting our choices - Edelman 2014- usability, being influenced by our encironments, manipulated.
Characters are restricted by their environments - not all from within them. Their environments are aprt of their characters.
An artwork's enjoyment can be disrupted, pulling you out of the world in which you had immersed yourself.


“you can go through the experience without the complete emotional damage.” - definition of empathy tourism.
“You do not play as yourself - you play as the subconscious of Julian Luxembourg”
“You can look out… but you cannot change him.”
Methods of characterisation given a very fixed space. 
Vsiceral sound of bread in hand, hand up to mouth, crunching in mouth. 
The voiceover is suggestive, a guide. 
Wine is called “Otra Vida” - Another life”.
Your fingers flit around the keyboard like thoughts. 
The wine aas the mediator, the inciting trope to move the story on. 
Menu is him washing up, afterwards or before. 


Falstein (2018) - gaze with VR will be good for character.

(Ryan) - god game has a combination of replayability and narrative diversity - minecraft as a god game. exploring a landscape is like a "little god game". uses sims as an example of this. "characters are like objects" - nodes within the world - written onto them. But always at a remove. YOu are their god.

koster "chas[ing] fidelity" - "large gap between visual fidelity and emotional fidelity"

Choosing to build othe rsystems - (Hunicke) "systems that interest the developers personally"
Weiz - embodied cognition - the body, the context etc. Are important for cognition
McWilliams, on NPCS - "life doesn't really work that way"




A monist approach - body and mind are one. 


, constructivism (Kriz) - people come up with their own sense of what is real - they 'construct' it.

In psychology - interference - mutation of qualities due to new input - emergence in books, characters due to audience - the program executes in the reader’s head. 