
More than one person at a time, as well, within the game. I am not focussing on this. The character only recognises one person at a time, and runs away - but you can stay out of range, observe or help. Focus the debate a bit. Collaboration is not as important as co-presence (Haywood) - to highlight its popularity, that lots of people would come and see it, and it would be scared of you (it is in a hole so its domain of sense is very small).
I would not agree with Samyn that videogames, in particular, are “bland, unforgiving, meaningless, cold-blooded, rigid systems”; this is far too reductive of the field. 

A cumulative effect - seeing the effects of other users. A casual experience.
"pervasive interpretation"

"where are we to turn for insight into how these structures might be able to effectively engage players in more significant issues?" - he was asking this right back then!


archaeogaming -> certain PARTS of it. How games can be mined as alternate histories, as worlds with layers and histories to be explored (like any fictional world?, but more spatially explorable)
Initiatives such as the HINT project - "exploring new technologies for heritage interpretation. Not necesssarily computational. Though the 'Digital Table' in the NEthelands.
Ortelia Interactive Spaces - "interactive, educational, innovative... explor[ing] the dynamics of cultural space"


While there have been many debates, particularly within the discourse of videogames, as to whether such experiences can be narrative, most of these concern the ludological, rather than computational, aspects of those experiences. Wesp (2012) provides an excellent and hindsightful overview of this clash between 'ludology' and 'narratology', which has now faded from a genotypic debate (can videogames be narrative?) to one of phenotype (which games are narrative, and where do those narrative elements reside (Bogost 2015, Bogost 2017)?). As discourses such as that of interactive fiction (Short, 2014) and interactive drama (Magerko, 2014) demonstrate, there is no inherent reason for comp-art to exclude the quality of narrative.