Moles move around at night.
cellar is not part of recipes - so what does it do?
Salt and sugar she uses – these were important luxuries, hadn’t had them before – relating to her increasing social status. The creature reacts to them in similar ways.
Its shame if you don't avert your eyes.
rubbing off taboo lets you go down...
Only one bruise at the time of lifting off finger...
She wants a mother's love?
Will change if you let it sleep in - otherwise it will perform just like Anne. Will let you explore its secrets. Less likely to let you find its secret (biologies) if it likes you - you treat it like a real creature?
Leave the kerchief in the corner? Where would it be?
The words around the 
How does the creature respond to the ballad? 
Sarah's last words are 'damn all our men' MMMMMMMM		
 Leaving things for him at the nineteenth bell - he is very interested, comes and sees what is going on, to eat, then wants to send her away...
Creature gets quite dirty over the day.
What would the creature like, outside of rituals? How would Anne hint at this?
Touching the moon tied to alembick.
He must trust you, to let you touch the Alembick (or rather, you must have defeated him).
shrinks downwards when finger comes, as if finger was a bird.
thyme - disappointed
Moles go into the woods.
Play with amount of pulling needed on ear to pull it out - simulate it getting weaker over time?
He moans for his luncheon on the day off.
Energy flags longer without food - gets it on certain days.
He says something like 'Damnation!'
What happens when you add the M as a sigil?
Saying 'Mary'
- Drawing Anne’s signature
Doesn't always come back on time (After lunch), depending on triad.
Thyme brings him back - what makes him go away?
If you don't use the right days, it starts to break free.
- Creatures emotions changes as it gets the 
Creature will be choked - makes an MMM sound
He liked Matthew. - how does this translate.
How do the bells affect it?
Make a light automatically when touching creature?
Has a dirty mouth when come back from eating.
Sleepier after lunch.
Slight rocking from side to side?
- Removing the taboo layers over time.
- A little sound when you slit his throat-  changes the pitch.
Taking dinner: the creature wants to go at a certain time (does it want to go at other times?) Hunger increases throughout the day. At particular times each day. If it comes back and doesn't find you there? It gets more angry the more you keep it there... Won't go unless you let it. It checks emotion when it comes back from lunch. Gets hungry at the same time every day...
End Of Day - creature is unhappy on days it doesn't get dinner.	
Going downwards, if going for lunch?
- Little lights on him at night - disappear when you get close.
- More scars for gout recipe.
- WOunds dripping for [x] time?
Moles move at night - little noises.
What the moon does?
- redesign circle - use last words again.
All people are the same to it.
Fur moves out of path of hand.
What happens to
 the moon in all this.
Making the light persist for a bit.
What can you find, going on at night? The moles move and come out at night!
Moles make a noise - more when you zoom in.
Moles still go down to eat.
Lots of moles at the middle portion - down near the bottom...
You can herd them with your finger.
red mole
pull him close, or push him away with a command.
red marks fading in and out at random.
Black eye fading in.
MARIA - how will he react?
Shameful when he comes back from eating.
Grumpy if woken up early.
Pulling ear out is cumulative