When I had finished coming across him, I no longer feared him. 
The mice had come across him, the slugs were still
And at every point of his pelt was some sort of dew.
I walked in over his dewlap, his corrugated legs
The dogteeth carved up and down his fur.
Tumours the size of four tumours
That were not a problem. 
The panty brindle across his pelvis, which
Seemed to have no use
As he had never found anything to mate with
Though he has tried. 

I came right around the corner of his nape, 
And he opened out before me. 
I realised that he had been lying on his side the entire time
Where he lay was not a hidden place, and yet I felt hidden, 
There at the face of his chest, 
Here in the heavens under the legpit,
The foxes had come across him, and screamed in his hollows.
His tail went through the hill unhappily
One of his many heels thundered by, churning a bib of mud
For it had rained in the night, 
Though he had not made it rain. 

The plasterers had come across him, and left their radio on his mind
Untuned and dappled with coming across
Not a breath happened in him, not a bright squid of steam
The body came across itself still
The shape of any river
The width of length
The body seemed to denominate as I walked it, 
Eluding me
I drew aside pounds of it, mired through its fluid ounces, 
Counted micrograms of dander, costed old money in his purses
No translation can tell me what had happened to him. 

He never talks about his body. 

I eventually found his head at the end of the day; 
the fur was peachening, the skin beneath russet, 
each hair a ray
His face as flat as flags, full of holes that I had
Never seen before
His mouth stretching around a corner
The beetles had come across him, opening galleries in his cheeks

His eyes finish what they are doing before they track my picking, 
Agonisingly, over their rims. 
I see curled dust float over his lens, my length
When I finished coming across him, I believed him. 
He spoke to me in a language (that was the last time, he has not managed since)
He asked me for lunch. I asked me what he wanted
He wanted something which had won awards
I awarded my own and threw it into that mouth
Whose teeth I cannot tell you
And it lay there surviving on his right-hand tongue
He told me without chewing who had hurt him
I didn't know them. 
His head revolved like a lock
As if he had never seen my sort before and did not know which way up I was supposed to go. 

He told me it was Sunday, and that he was in trouble,
I asked what he wanted.
He wanted to do what others do on a Sunday, 
He wanted to go for a walk. 

It was certainly a day of the week. 
I found one earless edge of that blunt edge of head
Under which may have been a skeleton
I marked it, trekked the other
I apologised as I used the high nostrils as leverage
And lifted him into my arms
With a long, hot fetch of noise
There we were, in a place I cannot describe.
Instantly he was silent
I saw the bones that his face did not need, 
The moss in his throat,
The metal around which his heart had grown.
And we came away from him
Precisely to see if we would reach the sort
Of conclusion that I was expecting.   