Moles moving at night - like cows - cannot keep configuration.
Her whole world mediated through the 'little, low window" - is it the creature's hole - can we be sure what she sees?
Anne's is a syncretistic religion.
Didn't tell her where they were buried. Never mention their bodies - what do you use them for?
Regreats making the circle now, but keeps people away.
The noises people make when they are hung. (in recipes)
wearing the cloak to emulate going outside.
Salt and sugar she uses – these were important luxuries, hadn’t had them before – relating to her increasing social status. The creature reacts to them in similar ways.
She does not call it a book - a pamphlet - she cannot afford the printing fee for a book.
rubbing off taboo lets you go down...
awlbatch as the vision of old superstition.
Lives on the river Night - the young woman lives down the river.
Calls the moor his 'temple'. A methodist term as well as a classical one.
The judge is one of knoles guests - also a romantic. in league.
They poisoned her father. - the secrets hidden in the text.
The young woman does not need it explaining to her - just do it like an algorithm.
More like an algorithm - how are they traditionally written
Using the kerchief like a condom
they see but do not View
The fundamental issue is that people do not see the world in the way that she does. Not as it truly is.
'innertainments'
She says that things have pro
We see other printed forms about her (the ballad) - popular at the time, also published by Cryer! Making money from both outrage and curiosity.
A 'cambion'
she is 'crack'd'
The virtual - not real - 'warmth without fyre'. A virtual world that she feels more comfortable in.
We see hints of enclosure at the start of the charms page - the Assizes records (another form of document).
Who is the 'Worldly Christian Witness' - Awlbatch? 
They represent the two forces - of modernity, indoors, and romantic, old outdoors.
'words may have no agency on their own'
sexism in the court.
Methodist preachers
'mercy of the county'
Just one in a roll of cases that day.
Accused of wrecking ships.
The popularity of her service in the ballad as well - queuing up the moor. 
Call he a 'simple, trembling girl' in the charmspage
Methodis of Knole - love of the outdoors, reformist, sermonising, philanthropist.
The visions of Simon Awlbatch - old, superstitious world - placebo effect? The idea of Anne's finger above him, influencing the moor? (3.4)
"  a Newly Age, & a Newly Beest to pullt it Along - & a Newly Work, wyth its Newly Method, & a Newly Worker fore to Work it – Wo-man onlie, who till now neer had no Alembick, but her Woomb, no salary but a screming babby, & has moggrified nought but Milk unto Buttre -
"
A quote from her at the start of each section?
The question of the knife - no knife in her hand - pathological response to trauma. A knife a relic of the old world.
Hint in the charmspage of her beliefs spreading.
The two sides of her - mouse or lioness?
Defending Awlbatch and his disappearing way of life in the charmspage. Classical references. 'travails and avarice of current times'
'the last true operator of this land' (Awlbatch)
'by deduction inescapable'
A womans work
The justice LIGHTING UP the evidence.
'both of Gods churches'
People still use the moor - crossing it all the time.
though we be no-place neer a Century, some Days does it seme that all are spaking of a Turning now
She did not technically lie in court.
'Viewing' rather than 'living'.
Do a recording of the wyfe of nighthead.
Anne is a 'goodly worker', by Msr Knoles own admission
The dispute between Simon Awlbatch and the Marchands is a microcosm of this changing society. Matthew was a gamekeeper, now in a factory - world changing.
"meke your Mark" - sign a contract
Illumination is important - not hiding, poaching.
black books are very obscure too
Hints of her fathers violence - her obsession with hands
Disgust at normal animals (like cows and men)
Some things were made when she was younger, to assuage her own fears (and other peoples)
Viewing vs. seeing
'sell myst to the starfing man and callt it bread - to sell noyses to the Dum and callt it speech - to sell ayrs to the adled & cally it breath'
Men get away with it because they have confidence- she has confidence too!
Sarah angry at Awlbatch, she just pities him (but still wants to kill him!)
Her literary schooling was domestic abuse mixed with business accounts
The marchands did not lie about the bull in court.
'see a wonder fore dinner-time'
Describing the soilwarps around and about. Taking advantage of the 'addled'.
'lazy, unearned health'
The instructions obscure more than they reveal.
'the learned make of the BEast a science,
Prescribes digital interactions, but much 'messier' than that.
If my Words come overlong & dullt heer then let the Troth be so, fore it shale nott fit an handbill."
The trial of the marchands - 
The processing of the creature - it's 'rednering' as if by some modern industrial process.
legal documents cut up as charms (precedent for cunning folk)
Overly harsh property laws (black act) (charms page)
The importance of direct evidence in her life, but doesn't trust the law.
Circumstantial evidence - nobody really saw what happened that night.
On charms page - 
the ignorant a Marvel see'
'harridans'
Actually a bit weak, her grand theory - the recipes are a bit of a letdown.
Ballad sees people as handing over their souls for an easy life - part of a transition to the modern age.
the 'downwartds path to God' - 
'in real rain wrapt'
Her obsession with fingres
'touch the flat fur, the unreal horn, and feel the warmth without the fyre'
The death of her mother - how people viewed her father (in the ballad) - a bodger, no horse.
What people have seen rather than done - relying on viewing rather than action. THe virtual. Who do we trust?
THe ballad as a sexist rejoinder against her.
Compared to animals in the ballad - classic sexism, not what she wants.
A lot of the 'intro' to her recipes are her frustratedly explaining how everybody else is wrong. 
Using last words as charms.
Both are wrong about spinners ear
She cannot conceive of a computational machine (which is really what the beest is) - it is 'some newly sort of Beest' - like a computer!
Recipes as algorithms (a pat comparison)
'sewn within her walls like thread'
The cellar - not mentioned, taken by her, used - how?
Ease and convenience is railed against in the ballad - the modern age is coming, the writer is of the old age (romanticism)
'slips the honest loads that moderne wyves seek to uncarry'
Different versions her last words (between ballad and Anne)
What he does delineated in the ballad.
Breastfeeding devil - old witch rumour (in ballad)
The warm without the fyre (the computer)
'cast the bones, consult the lace' (priests)
Rumours the beest gave her a child (in the ballad)
Just another oddity in Cryer's stable (ballad)
Relayign Sarah and Matthew's deaths in the ballad.
'Hell's Convenience'
Linked to the comet - the 'hairy star' - in the ballad.
A star on his forehead.
The 'milling' of solutions to common problems - going against God (the ballad) - turning away from god to devils for easy solutions.
A "felldom"
Is it deliberately NOT usable?
Using real ballad engraings.
'pythoness'
entry for gravtias in the back of philosophia (as screenshot/fig)
Mentioning her mother's name...
Being sung to. Having nose stroked.
Gendered nature of 'seeing clearly'. Only women can do it.
Creature is 'in-indoors'.
The bells marking its days.
You must step outside the world to control it. - but is she really outside the world.
A form of contraception, she is, like others before her. 
- Push the idea of delivery "right at your door"
She wants exactitude of speech - like in court, be very clear.
Asking for bodily stuff from the visitor.
The death of her mother - revealed through the cut-up speech.
Still a bit of sympathetic magic in there...
Creature doesn't always obey you - but obeys Anne (with sigil) unfailingly.
Awlbatch's schedule - reflected in the mole.
The moles as tiny agents on his body.
If you get yourself away from pain and distraction of being human - you can do good work.
Getting things into balance.
Has she taught it to do this?
The mundanity of the pains caused by these grand rituals.
What is she looking at (the creature or the window?) There is no window.
Makes it very precise.
Look at existing thesis figs, for things that I might need to talk about.
The people who came regularly, in her almanack - courting cleopetra, judges coming for judgements. Little stories, lives, the rich and the poor. Other soilwarps. Speak to dead wife. A sense of her other receipts.
- Little lights on him at night - disappear when you get close.
John becoming exasperated with her work patterns.
I know that no visitor will act in the way she wants them to - to sit all day, and work all day...
Not understanding about the mouse.
The creature's speaking no longer works.
Having to stay in the circle - starting to understand how SHE is bound, as well. 
The days of the week tied to mechanical process. - when people come most often. 
His working patterns modelled on the mill.
THe war in the background - but mostly the rest of the world does not intrude.
Pandering to him
Murder of mother
- She wants you to try and finish the job.
- She says that she can see the connections between things: but she missed the connections in her Dad's death.
- The body connections of the factory - all the different positions
- lots coming to prevent a pregnancy in almanack
Inside is safe: 
- Being abroad makes you guilty

Culture
also provides instructions on how habits can become intrinsically meaningful and socially
ordered through the practice of ritual (Dornan 2007).

for "young misses"
Cryer releases it as an entertainment - for 'con-descending'

In the end, is she trapped by her circumstance? Just a keeping of the house - has she really progressed? Within the same housekeeping tradition/genre?
Convenience as a big part of this, for her.
Seeing the world at a remove - Msr. cryer...
'much-trafficked and feared'
Only known for being a 'wyfe'.
Nighthead is new and clean.
Anne vanishes - right at the start. Assumes the reader knows a lot already.
'from nadir to apogee'
were I never one fore Wandring out in the Open
Comets flying past at that time.
'skryers, physicks, nigromancers, girdlers and tellers of toad dooms'
'succour to the miseries of the be-nighted; her consort to the occupations of fine folk and their climes'
Turns it into a romance, a fanciful tale - just like any other.
'vengeful rituals and a most mysterious burgling'
a 'frictional tale'
'some fresh Venture, Novele Impulse or un-common new STATION for her life'
In intro, start with the title page - what does it promise?
'inexhaustible spyrit'
Doesn't release them all - just a selection
looking for, as Cryer says, 'the Good Life'
needs only 'attention', movements precise, soft and fleeting touches - very easy to use.
'new innocent theorems of Worldly Matters'
Fed up with women giving away their dreems for free.
'station' in terms of machine - also position in life. Cryer as a 'stationer' - placing people in new position
She dreams only of birds.
Talked about - which she sort of loves.
Mis-using/mispelling language - the parvenus.
Everybody craving stories, motion - she wants to stay still, to have nothing happen to her.
Ease -> the light she sees ther in, very plainly - away from old propheics.
Obsessed with her dreems, with the creature - obsessed with the virtual - seeing people like Broth
'For did I neer put, a Fools Faith in Freems
Talking to the modern subscryber - all this convenience - like from another world 'not knowned if you were of this earth at all
to get 'the regard of the county'
What she wishes she could have said in Court - setting everything down here, as he never did before.
'vengeances of jender'
'amulotts'
Her contempt at the life of a witch.
Feminist issues - the opinions on women, the assault on their wombs.
'auspicious and ex-clusive EVIDENSE' - 'said to make them efficacious'
'printed for your Fancies solely
'sikkened of Ayrs
No freedom in real life -> therefore freedom in dreems, in ranging over the creature-  exploring without leaving the house.
"Archaeology can be viewed as a ‘kind of spatial text that varies from reader to reader’
(Tringham 1994, 172) and we can entertain the prospect that there may also be more than
one group of originators. Their interactions could have left cultural traces of their ‘microscale’
(to paraphrase Ruth Tringham) life-worlds in the game environment" - Anne does this
He is all surface - there si nothing within.
Finding a girl with M.M.M.
Creature is a sort of scapegoat...
Mention placebo effect + research...
Telling the subscryber that she is anxious to be working, to be doing 
A type of "stationery navigation" of MR space.
Even better than a story - part of the print culture of the time.
A selection: he does not publish them all...
Make it child friendly if don't read book. 
Tied to the mill workers body - all the ways they can break.
synaesthesia.
The crack has grown beyond its original bounds - she has been gone a long time.
Following her recipes is difficult (intentionally so)
They call it 'Ginny' - like an engine.
What does the thyme do?
The splitting of time between inside and out.
The sign of the kerchief - she is falling prey to autosuggestion, just like others - because it all links up in her mind.
She mentions all the girls coming to her house,.
Mary's Bells.
Clean and tidy
Creature likes to be left aolone.
Reliving her obsession - she knows where her mother was buried.
Is the creature the spirit of her mother?
Can rise early to service it.
Evaporation is drinking - MR crossing.
She believes in the circle: she makes you do it.
A set of shorthands arise.
In a way, face is the least important part.
The contingency of Anne's narrative consistency (or lack of it)
The finger does everything.
What can you find, going on at night? The moles move and come out at night!
They follow the moon - at night, they cluster at the top of the head.
A lot of stuff taken from magical tradition - that Anne would have absorbed by osmosis.
Still courting placebo/autosuggestion. Relying on creature's reactions.
Shameful when he comes back from eating.
Interpreting his normal biology as tied to the mechanics of the world.
Referring to things far down, lost body parts.
It's good old sympathetic magic! In thesis, talk about elements of sympathetic magic.
Industry-specific cancers - we see it through her.
Helping people with OCD.
It is hard to do her recipes properly.
Some of her explanations are quite weak.
Hard to predict what her father wanted - supplicating him.
You never really learn her reasoning.
It is always watching you, in the background.
Ailments 
Women from all different backgrounds.
The taboos as navigation, and as taboos.
Her prices as storytelling devices.
cut up last words.
A confused cosmology.
You must step outside the world to control it.
Her inner life SOUNDS mystical, the way it appears in the receipts.
What looks like magic words are actually her death speech.