A mill workforce without a mill, that’s what they called us. 
Machines were all they knew
Charlotte mentioning that Anne almost lost her job – because of the trouble. Her father will not let pregnant women work in the factory.
Putting a hot mug on his neck until it cools. Joseph had thick legs. Joseph never used to get ill when he was the gameskeeper.
joseph and sarah fit together because of job at mill
Creature likes them both
John thought his work was dishonest - showed that he was a fiddler. His delicate hands.
Mssr Knole pitied us
I was good at operating machines – the creature was just another.
elf-shot - from the hunting that Lord Aubern did.
Until these Yeers recent the people of thys District were neer taken much with the mongering of Rumour – mongering othre thyngs alwaies from the dawn until the Duske wyth the plough or wyth the Plattre and fynding all Idle talk at the ending of the Daie a great Burthen and wearisome. Though I do welcome the Leisure we have been Given, I lament that when our dailie Fabrications be done we do not Rest yet spend it in furth
big long open rooms.
You won't get an invitation to come in and look around any more sir.
you shalle see that we are not a comelie lot here.
pushing ailments back into the wild.
I had to go outside to go to work - I disobeyed him.e
used to go and see the hangings - the words of the dead have power.

For the Relief of Anie

A  C  H  E,   R  H  E  U  M
or    D  I  S  T  E  M  P  E  R

Within the Skull, Jaw, Tooth, Knee,
Bows, Sterns and Anie Othre Place

We all signed out compacks with mssr knole - and with our machines.



1 Anothre snackish Receipt, muche Used, Awesome in Powre, taken for Granted by my Neighbours; for I do sometimes believe that I have made it too cheape, for some dayes (when the myst has been very bad, or the sunne very Hot, or upon the daie after some Festival) they shalle queue without Thinking, as sheep entering a Pen, clutching their coins or biting it to abate the Pain just gentle until they can come into the Darke kitchin and vend some Relief. In the spring, and my Spyrit was Known and the fyrstly Feers had been oercome, thys was what all requested More than anie othre; and soone the kitchin was Fulle all evening, that John had no place to sit and eate, and they woulde come for a few Moments. At fyrst I charged so Little, yet Still I made my Moneye, as you shalle make Yours, that I was then able to leave the Industry myself; know that I dropped the Pryce onlie to give me some Relief myself from the Ache of Onslaught, and for I felt sorry for John, who was muche Vexed and did saye to me that He knew not what to do with all these People, and that it were not Natural to have so manie under one Roof. What is more, it was Becoming so Common that all Respect and Deference for the Spyrit was abating by the Summre; then people would come and sit with him as if he were a Shopkeep, dispensing Physick, rathre than a Mighty Creature, and they would no Longre looke it in the Eye, but speake to those in the queue behind them about their Births and characters entering their Lives, whilst the Spyrit watched them Hopeful, forever Gracious, and Pliant to their endless Demands.

RITUAL NOTES

Again, sympathetic – letting blood from its head?
Get them to calm down, pour fresh water into the bowl, no tonic. 
To lyft the bowl and drink it.

A very simple recipe, not much 
At the end of intropage – you may begin with something simple – doesn't have to be a narrative flow – a page in between?

John said that he would not have me do it, and went to mssr quonby instead

a simple one to begin

Not just headaches, but all pains

by then the crack was wide enough, and?

Mssr Buffer – rub his head – where does he work?

"sackless" - no energy

“canker/crabby illness/she was crabbish”

No question that he is causing them

Profession surnames

“cupping” - bleed the patien

“gund”

“almonds of the throat” - tonsils

Charms are numbered.

he will be "headshy"
“hoven” - being distended

Do we need a contents page, essentially?

what finery could she buy with all these people coming? I did not think John could complain about that, but he did

Starts in the summre.
Once they started to come proper.

The old will not come for this.
Remember about the subscriptions superscript if using names.
Somebody subscrybed to this – had a headache every week.

Look up real headache recipes from receipt books

sympathetic actions – voodooing it off from them onto creature.

Write their name on a charm and show it to creature.

Nighthead Gin

Explain why the ingredients are going in.

Red text

How long will the rituals take, something that is for potion size.

Ingredients along the side.

This were the second thing I asked of the creature, for the heat had given me a terrible headache.

Ingredients in italics

Everybody gets headaches, the sense of. 

Drawing a sigil on its forehead, trace it on them too. 

The rituals should be semantic as well – what do they reveal about their relationship?

Causes the creature pain which persists if it is finished.

Closes its eyesight
Gound if it is a pain in the eye, or cutting near something if it a pain somewhere else
Wash you hands in bowl, dry them on the cloak.

Speak to it quietly afterwards, as it will have a headache.

Speak quietly throughout

Dark in room, creature quiet to help the patient.

A spoken phrase from the bible (todays verse) 

- More description of its movement.

"brainsick"

will only work on those days when the creature is lusty, and when the wind is up.

Turn your head for modesty while you do this, or he will be ashamed.

Make a potion of various ingredients

flick the bean/blow upon it.

stroke in a cetrain direction

be gentle

the idea of unblocking, of massage

appeals to the things that the rich will like – nobody but the rich will come for this.

Placing something real in the liquid – tense hand, then relax.

Whisper in its ear.

 I do welcome the Leisure that we now Posses, when our daily Fabrications be done – I do lament that rathre than in Rest we do spend it in furthre Fabrication of our Neighbours.

my work with the creature was not that different from opearting a machine, being attendant to him.

I treat my machine at the mill kindly, as I do here.

I have Dreamt of your Busyness – Sir - and I do know that there shalle be manie Barrieres to that Departure, some Minore and some Grave. The goodwyfe bent to her Worke or the Farmre in hys Field cursing hys Weary have no Vision - as I do - of the Labours of Men Educated. In thys Yeer gone I have come to know Men of your Ilk – alwaies rushing about to some Engagement, Imprisoned by their Wiles and their Interests – neer at Leisure as the Poore and Foolish are. There shalle be manie Lettres to write – and Appoyntments to make afresh – and thyngs to Buy – and War Bonds to manage - 
 and Servants to Instruct – and the setting of a Lyfe for an Absence. 
The money is better
we were only saved by the industry
she thinks the bends were worth it
Used to be miraculous cures at the well - just not a big social thing anymore.
scarlet fever, ague, typhoid.tried a shrew-whip for lame animals.
- blessing the mill, keeping it going - hanging charms.
- Fairies affecting the mill - supplicating - did not really last.
bends and bruises - ppl used to go to him, seventh son, just very passive, didn't really take advantage of it.
awlbatch hating the industry
Knole pays for doctors - but cannot help with bends
They do not riot there – knole pays them pretty well, they wouldn’t get a better job. They have heard that riots take place elsewhere. Machines have not taken their jobs yet. Not good enough yet. Like now. Had trained them all – were farmers before. Troubles if you are self-employed weaver. Punishments were harsh for rioting. Difficult economic situation.
Knoles dislike her at first. think they are fomenting. But they never would.
 The mill owners see it as a utopian social experiment.
Weavers moving from domestic to industrial. Roller-spinning machinery. Not working, just supervising. Jersery Wheel used for spinning. Openers and pickers – open it into a lap. Scutchers clean the cotton seeds. Ciarders into lined up rows, combing into a slive. Combine slivers into thick rope, made of regular thickness and divided into slubbings. The spinning was done by machines, turning it into yarn, then woven into cloth. Shaft going up through the building. She thinks the machines are very fast, but not really – one day they’ll chop people up.
They will not let him work in the mill or do anything - terrified of being called slaveowners by their friends. He watches them in frock coat - I wonder if he feels the master. Anne sees him as a fascinating animal.
They used to wait for the king - the king is just a man.
the kings coins do them no good.
- 
education at the mill on a nsunday

anything under the skin - i would not go into peoples houses nor should i go into their bodies.
mill as a symbol of mechanisation of people - she says the subscryber will think that, others have said it to her. She says no it isn;'t 
Kneel at machines at work.


- We do not make heather babies anymore - do not need the heather to grow for the grouse.
- not a secret anymore since john let slip about it at work - people were wondering why I was acting so strangely at work.
Could not go back to the land - we are two yeers behind, need two years to get back.

I ama foe to all payn in man no mattre its source or its suffrer - it is an ungodly thing to be in discomfort. 
Not like the sharp pain given by nature.

“Mssr. Wyatt” came to visit at one point. 

They usedd to have sunday off - but not anymorre.

A mill workforce without a mill, that’s what they called us. 
Machines were all they knew
Charlotte mentioning that Anne almost lost her job – because of the trouble. Her father will not let pregnant women work in the factory.
Putting a hot mug on his neck until it cools. Joseph had thick legs. Joseph never used to get ill when he was the gameskeeper.
joseph and sarah fit together because of job at mill
Creature likes them both
scarlet fever, ague, typhoid.tried a shrew-whip for lame animals.

bends and bruises - ppl used to go to him, seventh son, just very passive, didn't really take advantage of it.
- They are starting to learn to read at work - being taught.

- liked the mill because of stability.
- Few hangings now. Cannot use to heal.
- I was so tired everyday.
- we all used to work on farms.
- now had cow monopoly
- the way John workes at the mill
- We still are bending into our shapes.
awlbatch hating the industry
They do not riot there – knole pays them pretty well, they wouldn’t get a better job. They have heard that riots take place elsewhere. Machines have not taken their jobs yet. Not good enough yet. Like now. Had trained them all – were farmers before. Troubles if you are self-employed weaver. Punishments were harsh for rioting. Difficult economic situation.
Knoles dislike her at first. think they are fomenting. But they never would.
John milky brown colour, but is fading now.
Somebody miscarrying on the line - treated like the virgin mary - knole genuinely sad, doesn't want to be blamed, such a bad symbol!
 The mill owners see it as a utopian social experiment.
Weavers moving from domestic to industrial. Roller-spinning machinery. Not working, just supervising. Jersery Wheel used for spinning. Openers and pickers – open it into a lap. Scutchers clean the cotton seeds. Ciarders into lined up rows, combing into a slive. Combine slivers into thick rope, made of regular thickness and divided into slubbings. The spinning was done by machines, turning it into yarn, then woven into cloth. Shaft going up through the building. She thinks the machines are very fast, but not really – one day they’ll chop people up.
They will not let him work in the mill or do anything - terrified of being called slaveowners by their friends. He watches them in frock coat - I wonder if he feels the master. Anne sees him as a fascinating animal.
Awlbatch hating the industry
everyone thinks it is preferable to working in the fields, except joseph and sarah
Someone decapitated in fields rather than mill - outside is dangerous
what awlbatch tells knole about his factory - it pains knole, as Awlbatch is the voice of the wild.
 and the heat went home to Nighthead, adn she went to the dining room with her parents, and listened to them talk about us for any evening.
People smell good in morning - empty, clean small, and full greasy in the evening.

the walk up the hill is almost too much now
- we are not so poorly off - things are so much bettre than they were for the last generation.