"you cannot just leave it like a pail" - not convenient like a phone.
- “There have been so many people coming and going” - pregnant again?
- Describes a lot more movement.
- This idea that she has gone in search of a "warmer warmth" than he can give to her.
- He said I looked like my mother. 
- she is going to get it fixed - she may come back.
- Fewer people coming now.
- I love you unto Dorset and back
- 
Not off into the moor, like a witch, or into the Devil's Almsbowl, which is where everybody will tell you I have gone - they have been waiting to tell that story about that place – she has taken the straight path. She is actually just down the road?
- Devil John putting his wage down the Devil’s Almsbowl – he isn’t helping himself. Hear’s him whisper words – incorporate them into ritual.
- She never wanted to leave the house, just wanted to be her own woman. never wanted to see the world
- I am preached against in towns
- Says that you can't - you may get bored of it, like I did - 
I cannot be all these people to it.
- The rector has changed again – as soon as awlbatch was vouched for. And then the new one came, and befriended him again! It is like a spell!
- The thing that binds him in the Goodbye is something taken from the Squintway - a roman artifact - see what I can find in charity shops
- Starts to call it "your spyrit" more, rather than "my spyrit"
- Life is falling me apart.
- charlotte has not come since the trial - he father spoke to Mssr Awlbatch's good character.
- I did it at the new moon - this makes him angry - the moon doesn't matter though.
- does not know who will return for their prescriptions.
- Ma Cubb had set up business again as Lady Woebegone
- Really not set up for an ending - right in the middle of the book.
- She took all of her finery away with her.
- Makes a valiant battle at the end to be heard, to be represented - does something ridiculous to "get himself writ down heer"
- I was a curiosity to her because I did not work at her fathers mill.
The land is what it is - my fathre made it, and it will never go.
- talks about the dream of the bird and the dream of him together.
"I am planning to leave upon the full moon, when it will be easier to disappear like his legend, and it will be more pleasing to him"
his hearth is gone now, I will go.
- John is in Nighcester, wondering what to do - he never liked living in that house
Leaves because he is worried OCD will come true? Infected by her fathers house - swears her to secrey, but she writes it down - the legend about the husband. "It all makes too much like sense, Anne" - but also she thinks because of cold, jealous of creature, starting to wonder about rumours
How long will it live?
Has she gone away with Charlotte?
 he is a creature of thys worlde, and not all of them, and a creature of thys Yeer, and not for Ever. 
How to back out of the circle?
They always thought that we would marry, Awlbatch and I.  
She mentions this as a “dessert”
By this point, much more of an appliance.
Something about her father?
Her father used to stroke her nose to help her sleep.
Leaving him water, if the right time for it.
She says, of course, you will never leave him, but each time must be like the last time. 
He always acts as if it is the last time, and you must treat it that way. She was no different.
Why Sarah and Joseph do not come around any more
It cannot speak – but I thought it spoke to me just once.
Lock him up against the Olf and Mr. Awlbatch – the parasite!
Somebody calling down someone big, in a mundane way, as the close.
She says that it responds well to a good slapping.
I think it has finished all of Mary's bones.
Talks about “any more than moles can move”
You may call it jesus, just that once 
It should remain healthy
does she query why he came - in goodbye page
too cold without it, for another winter.
how long in goodbye ritual do you have until he realises?
Charlotte and Devil John - she won't let her come anymore, sends Devil John awway - thought it loved Charlotte more than it loved her.
Getting colder.
Where was she going - to go abroad.
Fewer people coming now.
Telling you his least sacred name
Phrases from the black books of her youth - or rather what the chapboy said - is it his?
- Something Sarah and Joseph used to do, when they came around
Ambiguous as to whether she knows what she has done.
- Place the buried couple back in their hole - is this where their use is first laid out?
Both wants to leave and to stay.

Came up into the light and I saw 
The trouble came back (pregnancy)

She thinks that all the bones are gone.
What was the weather like when she left it? You will be just behind me - same weather.
Had done an abortion the other day - made a strange sound and now won't let me look at its neck.
Does not realise that it was her...
Came up into the light and saw every furlong of it.
Have to go outside - but she hates it.
Must make as little fuss as possible -small rituals, making no big deal.

Wants a hot meal again.
Becoming too much like the outside.
Its least sacred name, what she said at the start, and it mimicked her. An important name, nonetheless.
A hint of where John has gone -fulfilling prophecy, jumping into Devil's almsbowl. She knows he is not down there - linked to his ritual.
The deadening and tiredness when you look away from the screen. Say a phrase and rub your eyes, and step outside - why would you want to?
Thinks she sees a mole move.
Not off into the moor, like a witch – she has taken the straight path. She is actually just down the road?
If you see John, tell him…
She has not hurt john. She has gone along the squintway to dorset. - she says perhaps she has gone down into the devils almsbowl.

Charlotte is still there – have you heard the news?
Scared of going because she knows nothing about the world.
Not a year to the day – that would be too auspicious.

She has become a craftswoman, like her father.
Has saved up a lot of money.
Where is she going? To get help with her problem? John is gone?
Bones under house?
Something to do with her Father?
Whose is it?
Delayed pregnancy from man in childhood, she thinks.
John gets upset by the ballad – emasculated nationally.
I will drop this off at the printers.
what should the subscryber do before leacing.
Saying goodbye the final time – need all three secret names – she doesn’t call it this? One last ritual?