Used to rub it before going out  rubs it bald. 
He almost came to me about poachers once.
Likes being alone  party  changed because scared, somebody thought it was cursing them (a local cursing symbol)  kicked it. (cursing)  she realises she is tricking people, but it makes them feel better. 
- Only starts cursing after trial - why not. Many complaints about her, fby those further away
Cursing came later than blessing. 
She onlie called him Josef when she was angry. 
- they are boiling the inn signs for their wualities - the cock and the dog - tasted more like the arm of a king.
- Rector still had a latin bible.
- someone asks her to curse the machines - make them lame, not us - 
ask her to curse political figures - she does not know them.
A word only spoken when asleep, never speak  it awake.
not many seventh sons anymore - nobody has more than 4
- she says that people used to think the words of the dead and court proceedings were powerful.
 Mssr Mockett, where for many yeers he kept a sign that told all be wereDog, and after seven dogs, and seven throats slit,
they don't accuse each other - don't curse each other so much.

- Repeat after the priest.
- Making a wish on the creature.
- Derivative charms from church.
- Cursing - just poke the creature - not drag. Do to the creature what you want to do to cursee - cannot fit head in there - so angry you want to bite their face.
- I have never cursed awlbatch.
- They will ask to stab it in the eye, all these things - you can do them, though.
They also find Neolithic objects that are part of the Squint Track site, and use them as talismans/ingredients.
Somebody whose husband was the devil - was with her for years and then left - what would this be covering up. “he was alwaysm away on his busyness” - if he comes back, she will need this again.
Lawyers
Even Awlbatch pours potions on his field – his family have owned the few fields around the village since medieval times – father built it before that.
Onlie the rich hunt now.
charms pushing ailments back into the wilds.
Makes point that people uses the words of courts for charms.
Transfer disease to other people or objects.
Success – minor wonts of people.
Counting down or up to things in charms.
Actions of past rector
s/o wanted the spyrit to curse the demon in his coffee, which winked from amongst the orbs upon its surface.
Abnegating responsibility for charms and curses - I just do as people ask of me.
It does not ike to do the cursing.
Mssr Awlbatch used to take the cows to Severus' wood - they miss the shelter of trees.
Someone came on Awlbatch's behalf - he believes the stories, is paranoid in his field - curses god for poaching some with illness and disappearance - 
cursing curses on natural things.
Touching it on head, now tender, raw, worn down (for luck)

- I do not hear gossip about me, because I am always inside my house. @ work cannot heer each other - at parties it all comes out.
Severus as the old catholic god
- “I know what they say about Devil John”. Like he’s just there to impregnate people.
People not paying her – she needs to get in accounts.

- blessing for success in business
induce thief to return propety.
"there is onlie one locket, that costs, and manie thieves, that don't"
Tells story of Richard Orion like this.

Describes a lot more movement.
she mentions as an aside all of them being killed. (Warburg) – he would have died anyway

s+j ask her to bless herself - "for everything she has been through", and to look after John.

I do not know what occurs in othres houses - only what thye ask me for.


His dress as a magical item. (Rector) – used to use this.
The blessings and cursings are all sympathetic.
Very small difference between blessing and cursing
Someone came to ask for witch marks – friends of the knoles
when winter came, I was very cold b/c no hearth – had to huddle to it.
Never use the name Jesus in front of it. - it will think you are talking about it.
It does not like to do the cursing.
She cursed the millbully – he is very credulous – couldn’t get time off work – just before leaving the mill. Big drive at mill for uniforms for the war (feb).
Cunning folk all voodooing each other (feb)
Blessing Awlbatch’s cows.
The creature blessing Water.
The husband tells her off, exasperated, about obsessing over her father; every adult in the village has lost their parents, including himself. What about his story? He changes something of his, she gets angry – just a little curse.