
KORAN NOTES

Pareidolia of holy books - in the mouth of fod.
Koran is a character study of god. 
His power is reinforced constantly.
“Whereever you are” - universality.

Speaking directly to the believer. 
“People of the book” - jews and christians
“None denies it except the evil transgressor who, when Our revelations are recited to him, cries ‘fables of the ancients’!”
“The slinking prompter”
All holy books are very concerned with unbelievers - autocosmics must go further, for them.
“An apostle from God reciting from purified pages infallible (truths)”
“Are you harder to create than the heaven  which he has built”
“No, your compatriot is not mad. He saw him on the clear horison.
“But the record of the righteous shall be in Illiyun. Would that you knew what Illiyun is! It is a sealed book, seen only by the favoured.”
Non-linear structure - a literary device, some say, representing the shattering of human language. (Michael Sells)
An incredible work of autocosmics, ascribed to its main character.

Muhammad is an unseen “sum of oppositions” (Lotman) character in the text- he is dictated to.
Constant character reinforcement - “god is self-sufficient and wise”.Catholocism possessed a fundamental vehicle… ability to use visual communication.
A constant plea for believability! Against the unpredictability of autocosmics.
Koran like Arbatel - co-opts past books into versimilitude.
The Apostles are characters, and minor characters. Litterally the Koran means “The recitation”.
A “lost text”, starting with Adam - alternate accounts of other holy books.
Also called “The mother book”.
It changes throughout his life - softens towards the end.

Tsukogami - objects come to life.


Share many of them with adults - though many die away, and have died away, in the last half-century.
From 14 onwards becomes the supersitions of adults -> before that, of their peers.


Thing theory - objects losing social concepts through mis or dis-use or reuse, presented to us in a new scenario (anthropomorphised, for example). (Bill Brown, 2001)

A literary, an estrangement, the formalist position but for things.
Fork as a manuport
“A psychology of materials.”


For Friday, to Bechard.
This experience is peformed an night from eleven to twelve o’clock, and a
nut must be given to him. Write within the circle: Come, Bechard! Come,
Bechard! Come, Bechard!


To summon Silcharde - This experience is made at night, from three to four o’clock, at which
hour he is called, and appears in the form of a King. A little bread must be
given him when he is required to depart; he renders man happy and also
discovers treasures. Write about the circle as follows:
Holy God! Holy God! Holy God!

I conjure and command you, 0 Spirits, all and so many as ye are, to accept
this Book with good grace, so that whensoever we may read it, the same
being approved and recognised as in proper form and valid, you shall be
constrained to appear in comely human form when you are called,
accordingly as the reader shall judge. In no circumstances shall you make
any attempt upon the body, soul, or spirit of the reader, nor inflict any harm
on those who may accompany him, either by mutterings, tempests, noise,
scandals, nor yet by lesion or by hindrance in the execution of the
commands of this Book. I conjure you to appear immediately when the
conjuration is made, to execute without dallying all that is written and
enumerated in its proper place in the said book. You shall obey, serve,
instruct, impart, and perform all in your power for the benefit of those who
command you, and the whole without illusion. If perchance some of the
invoked spirits be unable to come or appear when required, they shall be
bound over to send others vested with their power, who also shall swear
solemnly to execute all that the reader may demand, and ye are all hereby
enjoined by the Most Holy Names of the Omnipotent Living God,
ELOYM, JAH, EL, ELOY, TETRAGRAMMATON, to fulfil everything as
it is set forth above. If ye obey me not, I will force you to abide in torments
for a thousand years, as also if any one of you receive not this Book with
entire resignation to the will of the reader.


I conjure thee, Evil and Accursed Serpent, N.. to appear at my will and
pleasure, in this place, before this circle, without tarrying, without
companions, without grievance, without noise, deformity, or murmuring. I
exorcise thee by the ineffable names of God, to wit, Gog and Magog, which
I am unworthy to pronounce; Come hither, Conic hither, Come hither.
Accomplish my will and desire, without wile or falsehood. Otherwise St.
Michael, the invisible Archangel, shall presently blast thee in the utmost
depths of hell. Come, then, N., to do my will.


Likewise, Isobel Crawford
was summoned before the kirk session of Old Aberdeen on 15 January 1727,
as being a woman guiltie of charmes and a teller of fortunes, such as telling
what a man any woman will be married with, and what a woman a man will
be married with: as also that she could give ane account that if any person
had any thing stolen from them, she could tell them if it could be got back
againe; and that if any persons who went abroad, she would give ane account
if they were dead or alive, and the lyke. 28

“It is the nature of children to be attracted to the mysterious”

We dip a lot into child psychology here because children are thought to be far more autocosmic.

Touch collar and find a four-legged scapegoat if you see an ambulance.
Don’t catch gaze of a cross-eyed woman.
Lady drivers - cross fingers until you see a dog.
Oil patches in road are where a rainbow has stood. If walk over it will get your sums wrong
Luck in examinations.


In fact from a judicial perspective at least, the state, rather like the Kirk,
Witchcraft and magic in Scotland 93
had been progressively losing interest in witches from the beginning of the
century. 

It would seem that there was neither an outright rejection of the
concept of witchcraft nor a great willingness to prosecute.

In Elgin, in 1734, Duncan Gregor was referred to the presbytery for
curing fevers, and in Strathblane in Stirlingshire, Katharine Cameron and
William Muldoe were brought before the kirk session for curing a horse by
passing a cat three times round and over it. 39


Sympathetic magic with shoes - links to the person who has died.

tangible links with
the magical beliefs of the past

Book of Daniel - Now the Babylons had an idol, called Bel, and there were spent upon him every day twelve great measures of fine flour, and forty sheep, and six vessels of wine. And the king worshipped it and went daily to adore it: but Daniel worshipped his own God. And the king said unto him, Why dost not thou worship Bel? Who answered and said, Because I may not worship idols made with hands, but the living God, who hath created the heaven and the earth, and hath sovereignty over all flesh. Then said the king unto him, Thinkest thou not that Bel is a living God? seest thou not how much he eateth and drinketh every day?....

The nature of movement, and the concealment of illusion, are part and parcel of theatre and puppetry.


Groeneveld does not see the difference between the Rood as theatre and as magic as a difference at all. It “straddled categories”, which made Protestant reformers uncomfortable, so they denigrated it as a mere puppet. No such thing as a mere puppet, though!




This history of Roods and moving images in the Church is tied quite intimately to the history of the Reformation in England, the sweeping away of Catholic mysticism and theatrical iconoclasm - while this is not very important to my enquiry, it is important to note, as it tinges a lot of the descriptions of these now-lost objects with subjectivity. The consensus of the crowd was not naivety, but instead a cultural acceptance of theatrical idols. We have similar things now with ubicomp?


Protestant reformers were keen to play up the stupidity and credulity of the simplistic Catholic flock.
They were often imagined with lives of their own, naughty, capricious, even rapacious and loving - not as solemn and unimaginative as everybody likes to think. The autocosmic at work even here!



Puppets only came in later, in the 16th and 17th centuries
Puppet shows called ‘Italian motions’


Puppets only came in later, in the 16th and 17th centuries
Puppet shows called ‘Italian motions’

Theatrical ‘context-setting’ process for getting access to the Rood by the monks - getting the common folk in the mood.
This hatred of iconoclasm seemed to be confined to reformers and literary heroes - the common folk loved the theatre of it all.
Groeneveld here stresses the idea of Catholic mysticism as relying on the lack of understanding and misrepresentation by the populace, who must be educated in the mechanical heresies of the idols that they worship in the churches.
“Expose through translation into the vernacular” - make the strange image mundane through explanation through scripture.
A social sport-spoiling.

Groeneveld shows that miracle can be non-serious and theatre serious. There is not a separation, necessarily, between the two.
The story published by the monks about the Rood are part of its context. As Brownbill says, “the real reason why the image was supposed to be miraculous, was the extraordinary way in which the monastery had acquired it.”
Context produces the effect of the rood, not the rood itself.

The representation of a thing is a “rememoration” of it - the closer to the truth it is, the more powerful (I.e. the rood is closer to christ than the eucharistic wafer, which has always been an autocosmic symbol) - but how far can you go along this path to “simulation”?
“The mechanical object was not necessarily an object designed to trick or confuse”


“A mediator between people who were unable to resolve their own conflicts.”

Frazer’s ‘contagious magic’
Malinowski - words can effect the world.
Symbolic approach - stanley tambiah - we say something to make it true expressively, rather than instrumentally. 


Lady Clerimond's brazen head between "four pillars of pure jasper"


Ema - letters to the gods.

Baudrillard is talking ‘a lot’ about the deenchanting of our surroundings. Autocosmics is important to enchantment. Indeed, this is what enchantment is!


"a remarkably heterogeneous collection of individuals.

"contributing to this pleasure is the variety, the unAll Magick is a revelation of Spirits of that kinde, of which sort the Magick is

Qui Contemplatione Creaturarum, cog-
novit Creatorem (saith Damascen) who knew the Creator by the contemplation of the
creature. (arbatel of magick)


Norman’s call to standardise is similar to the idea of ritual, of organised religion, of shared practice - it makes discrepancy difficult, and reinforces the unity of the character that you are worshipping. Gods like units of measurements, glyphs and signs, keyboards. A set of “cultural constraints”.

70s - even talking about magic, even if condemning it, could get you imprisoned and your books burned - they still provoked the imagination. Must be ignored and forgotten.

Sometimes less superstitious than their parents! They believe in things more that have links to the real world in their actions, and which leave physical evidence. Santa Claus has society-wide evidence, a consensus - could creature as well? 


“Hollow forms” - good title! Like a drum, then? Not a bad thing!

The sorceror is autocosmic - as is the interpretation! Mistaken cracks in the rock surface for manmade marks.

Krishna in Bhagavad Gita - god ness form for humans to focus on.

“Cult” means 
Murti in Hinduism or Jainism - any object that is deified. The idol becomes identical with the deity. Either made or natural. Treated as guests. (With definite shape or limits) - an object. Idol - painting any non-anthropomorphic obkect. 
Might be abstract forms (aniconic).
Focus on sporituality, meditate in front of them. 


It is much more difficult to focus on God as the unmanifested than God with form, due to human beings having the need to perceive via the senses.[44]

Bhagavad gita
It is not the real thing, but is a manifestation and reminds the viewer of the original thing of valuee - “treating the murti as the manifestation of a revered guest.”

Malinowski's observations of rtials amongst south pacific islanders.



Everything is worthy of worshup as everything has divine energy within it. 

The idol is an “object-to-think-with”




the most general
Precepts of the whole Art - just one book, the others are 

Boxes of secrets
The sikhs characterise their holiest book as a person.
ertainty, the not-seeing-evertything, and therefore being able to walk abroad using the imagination in regard to what one does not see"

v


This obsession with “strange marks” - the unknown is scary because of what we IMAGINE it to be!

“Made appetisingly few references to the Necronomicon, and so the exact nature of its contents is never clear to the reader.”

“It is their falsity that makes them genuine.”
The simplicity of the god compared to the complexity of the people.














bibliomancy (dictionary of folklore) - "well-attested" 'dipping' in oxfordshire.


BARUC, BACURABON, PATACEL,
ALCHEEGHEL, AQUACHAI, HOMORION, EHEIEH, ARBATON, CHEVON,
CEBON, OYZROYMAS, CHAI, EHEIEH, ALBAMACHI, ORTAGU, NALE,
ABELECH (or HELECH), YEZE (or SECHEZZE) - the many names of god in the Key of Solomon


"


Prayer is an interesting example of autocosmic suggestion - you ask for a certain thing, and are in the performative frame of mind for something to occur.


Don’t forget, ouija board was a top family game! worked by power of group suggestion converted into motor impulses on the planchette - a flocking mechanic. 

P. 80 conjure soul of judas to find out winners of election. (Davies)




Almanacs reveal autocosmics.

The governor Aratron hath in his power those things which he doth naturally,
that is, after the same manner and subject as those things which in Astronomy are
ascribed to the power of Saturn.
Those things which he doth of his own free will, are,
1. That he can convert any thing into a stone in a moment, either animal or
plant, retaining the same object to the sight.
2. He converteth treasures into coles, and coles into treasure.
3. He giveth familiars with a definite power.
4. He teacheth Alchymy, Magick, and Physick.
5. He reconcileth the subterranean spirits to men; maketh hairy men.
6. He causeth one to bee invisible.
7. The barren he maketh fruitful, and giveth long life



“Scot… while he did so to prove the worthlessness of its contents he unqittingly ended up democratising ritual magic rather than undermining it.”
‘Rain-beetle’ - step on it it will rain.
Davies - “the ritual of conjuration… required the magician to wear elaborate apparel including helmets and swords.”
A god is a captive storytelling system. In reality, gods do not have free will; they only reflect and serve their human masters. Predictable, ritualised ways. They are as bounded as djinns. We are smarter than god, as we created him. 


"black and shaggy" spirit appearing to John Winnick of Molseworth in 1646.
Cats, coneys, bears, puppies.
Court records read like fascinating creature stories.
Often one hurting men and one hurting cattle.





Philippe Cornies red horse die - "had some difficulty with his wife, because her cow had eaten the leeks"
Junius - For whoever comes into the witch prison must become a witch or be tortured
until he invents something out of his head and-God pity him -bethinks him of
something.




Before commencing operations both the Master and his Disciples must abstain
with great and thorough continence during the space of nine days from sensual plea-
sures and from vain and foolish conversation

These things being thus done and performed, ye shall see the Spirits come from
all sides in great haste with their Princes and Superio

Thou shouldest further make a Book of Virgin Parchment Paper, and therein
write the foregoing conjurations, and constrain the Demons to swear upon the same
book that they will come whenever they be called, and present themselves before thee,
whenever thou shalt wish to consult them. Afterwards thou canst cover this Book
with sacred Sigils on a plate of silver, and therein write or engrave the Holy Pentacles.
Thou mayest open this Book either on Sundays or on Thursdays, rather at night than
by day, and the Spirits will come.

The mysterious 'grid' page of Liber AL's manuscript. "for in the chance shape of the letters and their position to one another: in these are mysteries that no Beast shall divine. ... Then this line drawn is a key: then this circle squared in its failure is a key also. AndAbrahadabra."



When, therefore, thou shalt wish to
acquire the knowledge of Magical Arts and Sciences, it is necessary to have prepared
the order of hours and of days, and of the position of the Moon, without the opera-
tion of which thou canst effect nothing; but if thou observest them with diligence
thou mayest easily and thoroughly arrive at the effect and end which thou desirest to
attain.





Nothing is a secret key of this law. Sixty-one the Jews call it; I call it eight, eighty, four hundred & eight-
een.
All words are sacred and all prophets true; save only that they understand a little; solve the first half of the
equation, leave the second unattacked. But thou hast all in the clear light, and some, though not all, in the
dark.


Thou shalt obtain the order & value of the English Alphabet; thou shalt find new symbols to attribute
them unto

“The slaves of because” - Crowley’s interesting phrase - stop looking for reasons? “The dogs of Reason” - reason has helped nobody.

Charms not worn on the body, amulets and talismans were - amulets non-location specific and natural material (like charms), talismans were manufactured.
Charm buried in a tin box in the wall


“Contents found inside the bottles suggests that some kind of recipe or formula of symbolic value was being adhered to.”



This book shall be translated into all tongues: but always with the original in the writing of the Beast;
for in the chance shape of the letters and their position to one another: in these are mysteries that no Beast
shall divine. Let him not seek to try: but one cometh after him, whence I say not, who shall discover the Key
of it all. Then this line drawn is a key: then this circle squared in its failure is a key also. And Abrahadabra. It
shall be his child and that strangely. Let him not seek after this; for thereby alone can he fall from it.
Things were placed in walls all the time.
Witch bottles and cats were examples of sympathetic magic
“50 percent were found beneath or witin the hearth… 8 per cent were found in or beneath walls”
Dried cats put there on purpose, smell was bad. Warding off evil spirits. “Utilitarian function” - like an appliance.

Particularly in the period in which Anne Latch lived. - I’m using an english context.

But she said: the ordeals I write not: the rituals shall be half known and half concealed: the Law is for
All



Whosoever disregards this does so at his own risk and peril. These are most dire.
Those who discuss the contents of this Book are to be shunned by all, as centres of pestilence.



People would call down the Holy Ghost for small or ridiculous things - Judas for the results of a local election. Autocosmics at its height.

Horsehair becoming eels.

Davies mentions a Burnley cunning-man who uses trigonometric and astrological terms for demons - “impressive names to ‘conjure’ with”

Charms “not meant to be read”. Just autocosmic power.
“The ability to write and copy out charms was in itself an exhibition of power, in addition to the magical strength of what was written.

“To enchant firearms”, “to win any time one plays the lottery” - long latin incantation for this one.
Israel Ragrdie - "If Aiwass was his own Higher Self, then the inference is none other than that Aleister Crowley was the author of the Book, and that he was the external mask for a variety of different hierarchical personalities ... The man Crowley was the lowest rung of the hierarchical ladder, the outer shell of a God, even as we all are, the persona of a Star

Must be sharp and short with spirits

Burrington relates this to the internet, surveillance and the homogenising -> new superstition and control by government. Obfuscation.
“Green cars are rarely seen” - unlucky.

At once territories and metamorphoses have been taken from them - the unconscious is the individual structure of mourning in which this loss is incessantly, hopelessly replayed - animals are the nostalgia for it.


 the symbolic behaviors we perform before, during, and after meaningful event – are surprisingly ubiquitous, across culture and time. Rituals take an extraordinary array of shapes and forms. At times performed in communal or religious settings, at times performed in solitude; at times involving fixed, repeated sequences of actions, at other times not. People engage in rituals with the intention of achieving a wide set of desired outcomes, from reducing their anxiety to boosting their confidence, alleviating their grief to performing well in a competition – or even making it rain.

 Our results suggest that engaging in rituals mitigates grief caused by both life-changing losses (such as the death of a loved one) and more mundane ones (losing a lottery).


People facing situations that induce anxiety typically take comfort in engaging in preparatory activities, inducing a feeling of being back in control and reducing uncertainty.


“The individual was usually alone, either in the countryside or at home, or in some sort of trouble”

Animals have no unconscious, because they have a territory. Men have only had an unconscious since they lost a territory.

 "Soyga" - "stand up straight on your feet for one night" - doing things outside the ritual to make it more conducive. Unus - fast for one day. - Saday - wash yourself in cold or warm water for three days with three days interpresed.
Dreaming of cats - somebody is being treacherous to you.

The question that they raise for us would thus be this one: don't we live now and already, beyond the effects of the linearity and the accumulation of reason, beyond the effects of the conscious and unconscious, according to this brute, symbolic mode, of indefinite cycling and reversion over a finite space? And beyond the ideal schema that is that of our culture, of all culture maybe, of the accumulation of energy, and of the final liberation, don't we dream of implosion rather than of explosion, of metamorphosis rather than energy, of obligation and ritual defiance rather than of liberty, of the territorial cycle rather than of

Run around something a certain number of times- difficult and makes you giddy - courts autocosmics.
They “devised spells and rites”
Research shows that rituals do have an effect on our mind - they reduce anxiety/stress/grief whatever. Actions within a magic circle/suspension of disbelief having an effect - just like fiction!
 
I am concerned with 'low magic'
Cult Image - worshipped FOR the deity. But Yocto IS the deity.
An idol is worshipped AS deity.
Of course, abrahamic religions don’t like this - is this why autocosms are deprecated?
The Apis Bull - the idol in the book of genesis.

Ian Reader says that though people do not any longer believe in them, they still turn to them. 

“Brains aren’t as modular as software” - don’t “slavishly mimic” the brain


The “apple of love” and other things.
Auto-magic tricks
stonishing that serious believers should find pleasure in seeing these
performances repeated for weeks and months together. They enter the room
and there wait with eager expectation to see the children pricked, pinched,
cut, hit or scratched.’ What were ‘men of sense and learning’ doing sitting
‘dumb for an Hour while something is cooling over the fire that is to bring
the witch to the door?

John Parkin’s charms - “power would be effective only as long as [the client] fervently believed in them.

P. 130 - “In my opinion this
affair has a manifest tendency to revive superstition and ignorance amongst
us!”
 ‘By asking questions this morning, it answered that
Mr. **** had employed it. Mrs. Elmes and the children heard it cry out, “Jee
woah”, as waggoners used to say in driving horses.’

A form of ‘virtual being’ based on autocosmics surrounding superstitions, animals and characterisation.

“To compel one dance completely naked”
“To prevent a woman from conceiving”
“To make everything in an apartment appear Black”
“Glue to repair porcelain vases”

“Althoguht the word ‘abracadabra’ is now used lightheartedly, and is associated with stage magic, it was once considered one of the most powerful of words and not to be used in jest”.

Bouba/kiki effect for characters in grimoires.


“Adorning consulting rooms with unusual objects and decorations”

“Others claimed to encounter them on a more regular basis, commonly developing a particularly close relationship with one or more spirits.”


Used instead of medical doctors who could not provide a reason - autocosmics, and autosuggestion, provide a reason from the cunning-person.

Indeed, prosecutions were necessary because people believed.
“How and why people chose to consult particular specialists, when confronted with illness, death or loss”



Davies - people were susceptible to auto-suggestion and magical thinking to differing degrees, even in indigenous settings.
Cunning-folk “generally believed in their own powers” (smith)


“Presumably, however, there had always been a signifgicant number of people, not only amongst farmers, artisans and tradesmen but also the labouring classes, who were outright sceptitcal about the magical abilities of cunning-folk, and scorned their peers for consulting them.
Summoning lucifer on a monday!


Isaac Bickerstaff (really Jonathan Swift) writes a mock almanac, and it is taken as real!

Reginald Scot (1584) Discoverie of Witchcraft - denounced witchcraft as autocosmics, but his book was used as an autocosmic manual! Followed in scepticism by Thomas Ady, Robert Filmer, John Wagstaff, John Webster and others.


Numerous examples (in Davies, Wilby etc.) of people feeling better very often after trips to cunning-folk, there did seem to be a balance between belief, evidence and ‘spoiling the sport’. 

Part of a continuum which included many different sorts of spirits - (Wilby) “Categories of spirit overlapped considerably.”


Re. Familiars (rifford) - “independent life of its own, it remains closely linked to the individual.”


The creature is halfway between a charm and a talisman; not worn on the body, placed somewhere else, and must be interacted with, and believed in, to achieve result. Depending on one’s view, it is either made of natural materials or manufactured.

“At a mass execution and burning in 1786, twelve spectators went up to the gallows, where the executioner ‘rubbed the still warm hands of the six dangling bodies upon their necks and faces as a supposed cure for wens.”

Harding has an interesting tone here - speaking as if these superstitions really worked, at least rhetorically; a recognisance of the power of autocosmics? (”These superstitions prevented and cured a variety of ailments.”)

They had autocosmic power beyond their words (p.67) in Venice 1500s, scraps and words and phrases taken out of context from the Key of Solomon and became prpotectuve talismans. As to the Arbatel, my hunch is that the other 8 books never existed and it was just the usual grimoire fabrication.
Magical breastplates and helmets made of words - lcother yourself in words.
The sympathetic environment was starting to change. ALl things no longer aliove.

yhou are somebod who knows that not all things are alive.

Radiocarbon dating the shroud of turin paper - it’s a medieval hoax.
Seeing letters on the shroud - reading masses into them. Flowers, etc.
Such a huge amount of time spent on the shroud - cannot just reject something so autocosmic out of hand.

The banning of grimoires was, in essence, an attempt to retain autocosmic control over the populace. In fact, it just made the autocosmic associations worse!

Magical breastplates and helmets made of words - lcother yourself in words.

Might be labelled as outsider artists, or magique brut.
Magical breastplates and helmets made of words - lcother yourself in words.

Whoever carries this book with him, is safe from all his enemies, visible or invisible; and whoever has this book with him cannot die without the holy corpse of Jesus Christ, nor drowned in any water, nor burn up in any fire, nor can any unjust sentence be passed upon him. So help me.

word games/riddles/sator squares

she becomes a craftsmen, just like her dad.
The possession of grimoires, and their ownership, is as much a part of their appeal as their contents - individuals moving through time.

chording/syzxyz
Reversed words
A lot of their mysticism is based on their social context as 'banned books' - what is the history of this book?
Their manuscript nature
Kabbalah - interest in sixteenth century and the new age. 


De Blecourt, quoting Briggs - “there could plainly be a random element in the operation.”
Only started to change as executions became private and less frequent; the access to municipal ‘evocative objects’ in most people’s everyday life declined. Belief adapted around this famine, and moved onto something else.
A combination of claims by cunning folk and the ready belief of a suffering public.


Harding - healthcare was so poor, expensive or painful that autocosmics offered an easier, imaginary way out, reinforced by psychosomatics and cultural surroundings.

Charms, amulets and talismans - Objects are imbued with great meaning (reference to many, including Turkle’s “evocative objects”)

Spreading like an autocosmic virus
"a common world of knowledge often mediated through common texts... complex network of local hierarchies and business practices, in most cases throughly intergrated with local society"




These results, taken from our larger instrument to diagnose science knowledge and
attitudes, indicate that astrology is part of a larger landscape of susceptibility to pseudoscience thinking among
college undergraduates.



We conclude that the prevalence of belief in astrology
among college undergraduates does not imply poor scientific literacy, as measured by an instrument similar to
that used to guide public science education policy. Pseudoscience beliefs are widespread, and are somewhat
mitigated by college science classes, but they can coexist with legitimate scientific knowledge.

Even today, astronomers still refer to the zodiacal constellations when
mapping the sky


Familiars “usually believed to be visible in animal form”
“Cross between frog and rat allegedly owned by a Cambridgeshire woman, or the ‘creepy-crawly things’ which one in Essex was said to feed in a circle with chopped gress” - also in chapter 3?

in 18th century, "cunning folk seem to have been virtually immune from legal harrassment"

Familiar denoted “both the witch’s demonic spirit and… personal helping spirits”


Aesthetic illusion is not magic - (Leon Balter 2002) says Wolf. Disagree, magic required a distance (perhaps not rational).


Huge groups of priests come to watch him ask it questions in Latin and Greek.



Davies' conclusion was that "the campaign against cunning craft was ineffective.. to succeed, it needed the support of local communities, which was never given"

"they charged fees for their services as any other craftspeople would do"



"the prestige which it gave them was at least as imporant a motive for their engagement in it as financial benefit."




